Foreign we are now going to explore one of the most important topics in technical analysis. Consolidation. Consolidation plays a vital role in understanding price action. And at its essence, consolidation is simply price acceptance. It occurs when buyers and sellers temporarily agree on a price, allowing the market to take a breather before the next move. My trader emphasized the importance of consolidation in sustaining price movements. He taught me that as long as there's proper consolidation, price trends can continue indefinitely. This is a belief I continue to have today. In other words, if a stock has consolidated properly, then it's no longer overextended on that timeframe. The price has been accepted by the market. Regardless of whether you focus more on continuation strategies or mean reversion strategies, having a feel for the quality of consolidation is critical for continuation strategies. It is critical because proper consolidation is one of the most important variables to increase your win rate and reward. And for mean reversion strategies, your best win rate and reward is found in stocks that that are making extreme movements without proper consolidation. Think about consolidation from a psychology of the holders perspective. The longer a stock has consolidated, the more time longs have had the opportunity to sell. Those who have wanted to sell at those prices have had the chance to. Those who have wanted to short and push the price lower have had their chance as well. If the stock has been unable to go down or pull back, that willingness of buyers to still be interested at the new price level is a signal of strength. Compare that with the stock that has made a huge preceding move higher, barely consolidates, then makes another leg higher. So many longs haven't had their chance to sell yet. Nor have shorts had tons of time to get short. For an extreme case, think about stocks that mega waterfall super quickly. That is the opposite of a consolidation. These moves have sharp price changes over minuscule amounts of time. So very few players have the opportunity to buy. That's what often leads to retracements and bounces. The more time and volume that occurs in a range, the more time players have had the ability to transact and the more price acceptance there is. So what separates good consolidation from poor consolidation? I'd say it comes down to two main factors. The first factor being the length of consolidation relative to how big the preceding move was. For shorter moves, I ideally look for consolidation to the moving average or longer. For bigger sizable proceeding legs, I seek consolidations that match at least the length of the preceding move. Ideally even two times the length of the prior move. The second factor is the quality of consolidation. Tight consolidations with narrow trading ranges are more reliable indicators of future price movements compared to ranger consolidations. If a consolidation is loose and rangy, that shows a lack of aggressiveness by buyers. Even in mean reversion strategies, the quality of consolidation is important. The less time a stock has consolidated, the more eager I am to look for a reversal. On the other hand, if a stock is consolidated beautifully for hours and then has a breakout or breakdown, I generally want to be with that trend and not looking for a retracement. Mastering consolidation means recognizing its nuances and using them to inform your trading decisions. By understanding its significance, traders can improve their win rates and refine their trading setups for better outcomes in the market. You Having discussed what consolidation is and why it's important, it's time for us to explore a few practical examples to help us gauge what proper consolidation looks like. This first example is an intraday chart of AGRX from November 6, 2019. The ticker had been setting up for an exhaustion gap short on the daily and and this was the day we cracked intraday. What you see here is that for every down leg we make, we would then proceed to consolidate fully towards the moving average. Both of those breaks of support are totally acceptable short entries as a result of the prior down leg. Having seen price acceptance as a result of that consolidation, it is also worth noting that each consolidation is about equal in width to to the length of the down move. Note that as I mentioned in the consolidation overview video, I like to see a consolidation to the moving average for basic legs and roughly a one to one ratio of leg size to consolidation length for much larger, more protracted legs. I even like to see a consolidation two times the size of the distance the leg is covered. Here is a second example, except this time we are demonstrating a proper consolidation length on the daily time frame. VXRT went from $0.40 to as high as $1.80 in early 2020. Many traders might be wary of buying a breakout after a stock has increased over 4x. That being said, we can't attach ourselves to that lens viewing stocks based on percentages or size of move. It is too simplistic when in fact the technicals tell a different story. Despite the large up move, we we then spent most of February consolidating towards the daily moving average in a very tight consolidation. That level of price acceptance highlights a new equilibrium which then makes it far more probable for this stock to then be able to break out on the daily, which it then proceeded to do. As a final example, we will be looking at Tesla on July 10, 2020 despite the stock making an enormous multi leg move, none of the price action should come as a surprise to us. Both legs consolidated equal to or greater than the length of the initial move, while before breaking out on the second leg, we could have perhaps used even more consolidation as a result of just how big that prior leg was in distance covered. Nevertheless, we still met the rule of thumb to at least consolidate an equal amount. When a stock moves like this, it is totally sustainable and is the type of chart we should seek to profit from trading with the trend and never ever consider mean reverting. Given the steadiness of the legs coupled with the proper consolidation, these three charts serve to highlight a couple different scenarios of what proper consolidation looks like. A great exercise to do is to skim through charts and analyze them through the lens of consolidation. What does the consolidation tend to look like prior to some of the best moves? Or what about the worst moves? As we spend hundreds and thousands of hours viewing charts this way, we eventually begin to internalize how price action and consolidation interplay to result in patterns that we can capture foreign. We are back again with more case studies of how to judge proper consolidation. It truly is such an important topic given that this concept is relevant regardless of what type of trading you tend to focus on. It is an integral part of understanding price action. So let's dive into three more examples to assess the length of these consolidations. Here is a monster chart of Biogen on February 5, 2020 after it had news on its Alzheimer's drug. While this breakout above $355 isn't the worst setup ever, it really didn't consolidate enough and that is likely why it couldn't find sustained follow through. Given the enormous initial leg it had, I would have wanted to see it at least consolidate over to the moving average. And in an ideal world, given that monster first leg, I would have loved to see it consolidate for many hours. So while yes, I did buy that breakout given how tight the consolidation was, the length of it left a lot to be desired and made me scale back my expectations for the quality of the play. For the second example, we are checking out Fiverr on its IPO Day, June 13, 2019. This was a killer IPO that made a massive move, but it did so in an extremely sustainable way following the guidelines for proper consolidation. We made so many legs higher, but we only proceeded to do so after taking the time to consolidate at least towards the moving average and often much longer. This is again worth mentioning because for a brand new IPO which undergoes a ton of price discovery. There is no reason why this stock just can't keep going and going with proper consolidation length. Except for right by the close, this ticker is simply stair stepping up and to the right in a highly sustainable manner. This is another chart I want to try to capture with the trend and avoid shorting given the proper consolidation lens. The final example we will be going over in this video is ATVI on July 11, 2023. I often refer to this example because it is just such a textbook beautiful chart. Activision was in a pending merger agreement with Microsoft and and received positive news on the potential closing of the merger, causing the stock to rocket higher. We make a big move, but that move is followed by a picture perfect consolidation over to the moving average. As a result, you shouldn't have any hesitation buying that breakout or worrying that the stock has already gone too far or moved too fast. After having gone over a bunch of these examples now, I hope you are developing a sense that that with proper consolidation a stock can just keep going and going and going. Oftentimes, the more consolidation the better, particularly after a stock having made a huge leg. I hope these highly typical examples help you develop a better feel for how important consolidation is in interpreting these charts and eventually capturing some of these moves.

