Market.

The answer is in most market Momentum burst multiple times in their country and as a method and starting using it in their country and it has worked.

So Momentum works everywhere, Momentum bugs works everywhere.

There are some countries where you might have trouble making Momentum bust work and that has nothing to do with Momentum bus not working, but that has to do with the way the rules are.

In certain countries there are price filters that means if a stock is up five percent for a day, they stopped trading that particular stock.

So in that kind of a country, you're going to have a problem trading Momentum Burst.

But out of all the members who speak to me, I have come across that problem only in one or two countries.

So the answer is out of one hundred thirty countries where there is a stock market.

If you look at a chart of any stock in that country and if you study Momentum burst is how stocks will be moving in that country.

Also so whether you are in Great Britain or in Europe or in Korea or in China or in Singapore or in Malaysia or whichever country where there is a stock market, Momentum burst is going to work the same way in your stock market.

Do you need to make some changes?

Maybe because I don't know all the markets, but I know from members definitely that There are members who are making money using Momentum Burst in their local market.

Momentum burst will work in your country as long as you understand the concept and adopt the volume filters or the price percentage filters to your country.

How can I understand Momentum Burst vector in order to understand Momentum Burst better?

What you need to do is deep dive.

That means you do a deep study of Momentum Burst before you start trading a Momentum Burst.

And the reason why you need to do that deep study is that.

Deep study is going to allow you to see these kind of moves on historical charts and as a result you can calculate whether that stock made eight or ten or twenty percent move, whether it was a three day move, whether it really started from fifty two week low, whether fifty two day moving average is important, whether ADR is important with a two hundred day moving average is.

Important. So how can you do a deep dive in order to do a deep dive?

What you need to do is to go back into history and look at thousand, two thousand, three thousand examples of Momentum burst and mark them on charts.

So how you can do this is by basically going into TC two thousand and when you go into TC two thousand, you can basically look at all the charts of any stocks and you can like and just take all the charts which there in US stocks and just go.

Whichever way you want.

Like you can go alphabetically and look at every single chart and see where there was a Momentum Burst in the last one year on the positive side, negative side.

Mark those Momentum Bus.

See how the first day move looked, you can go and like and go to that particular days on the first day of Momentum bus.

So this is how it will look. Then you can go and see and mark this is how it looked by third day.

And this kind of a deep study of thousands of examples.

When you do, then what you are going to understand is how Momentum Burst works across different price points.

How Momentum Burst works across different market F phases.

What happens to a Momentum Burst when the market is in a bearish phase, do they work?

What happens when a market takes a turn?

Do they happen near fifty two week high, fifty two week low. This is a Momentum Burst.

How much was the Momentum Burst here? This is only three percent. This was the Momentum Burst.

This was six percent. So what is the average days? Where should you be putting a stop?

What kind of a stop strategy is going to. Work?

All that information you're going to derive from a Momentum Burst from a deep Dive.

Deep Dive is a highly recommended methodology for becoming good at Momentum Burst.

The first deep dive which you will do is just to understand this three-day phenomena to see.

How it happens on different chart, because you need to be convinced that this actually happens.

Not because I told you that it happened so Deep Dive of at least three thousand examples is the starting point for you getting a deeper understanding of Momentum Burst.

And if you do this, you might come to the same conclusion as what I spoke about in the series of video before that.

And what kind of observation you are going to find is going to determine how much confidence you have in Momentum Burst.

So my suggestion to you is to do a Momentum Burst.

Deep Dive first part will be to just understand a Deep Dive.

And once you do that, then you can do a second deep Dive.

Third deep dive more specific to how to trade a Momentum Burst.

What methods which I use are based on Momentum Burst. That is what we look at.

So there are many methods which i trade. Four percent breakout which is based on Momentum Burst.

Dollar breakout, which is based on Momentum Burst.

A Combination of Four Percent and Dollar Breakout.

Or a combination Momentum Burst is what I really trade.

That is based on Momentum Burst I also used to trade a methodology or a setup called low threshold breakout.

It was also based on Momentum Burst.

So four percent breakout, dollar breakout, low threshold breakout and a combination of four percent plus dollar breakout, which is called as combination scan.

These methods are all based on Momentum Burst.

Each of these methods have certain advantages and I will get into details of each of these methods in the next series of video, taking one method at a time and showing you how you can use four percent breakout or a dollar breakout or a combination of four percent and dollar breakout to find rates.

Every day and make money on an ongoing basis.

So the first method which I developed based on Momentum Burst twenty years ago was four percent breakout.

Four percent breakout is a Momentum burst scan which I have been using for twenty years and the background to four percent breakout or why four percent breakout is important.

To understand.

Around twenty years ago I looked at every stock which has traded in the last forty years and which had made twenty-five percent move in a month.

And when we looked at the stocks which had made twenty five percent plus move in a month.

What we found is that at the beginning of their move they typically had four percent breakout.

So if I want to capture a stock which makes twenty-five percent move in a month and if at the beginning day of their move typically they had the frequency which we found it wasn't three percent move, it wasn't four percent, it was a one percent move, two percent move.

It was like commonly four percent plus move.

So as a result of that I selected four percent breakout, because it was based on the history of like stocks and since then I studied this for last twenty years and it continues to be the same phenomena whenever you look at a stock which is up twenty five percent plus in a month, what you are going to find is that stock has had four percent breakout at the beginning of the move and this you can check for yourself by studying different periods, different months, different years and you will find this as a common characteristics.

So the first method which we are going to look at in detail is based on this kind of a historical pattern which I found and we will get into the next video where I will look at what, what is the scan which I use how to scan, for how to create a chart for this particular method, which is called four percent breakout.

So let's look at four percent record and let's See what really are we scanning for in a four part.

Breakout now four percent breakout looks for a stock which is either up four percent on a high volume or a stock which is down on four percent on a high level First part of this.

We are going to look at four percent breakout to the bullish side.

Four percent breakout is basically a stock which is up four percent plus volume is greater than yesterday's volume and volume is greater than one hundred thousand.

So three conditions needs to be met for a stock to be considered a four percent breakout.

So all these conditions, if the stock meets it, will show up in your four percent breakout scan.

Let's look at four percent breakdown now this is a four percent breakdown scan.

In this particular case the stock is down four percent plus.

So stock is down four percent plus volume is greater than yesterday's volume and volume is greater than one hundred thousand.

So this is a four percent breakdown scan.

So there is a bullish side to a four percent breakout and there is a bearish side to a four percent breakout.

So let's look at a four percent breakout scan in TC two thousand now this same bullish scan, which I looked at there is here.

And if you run it on us.

Common Stock Exchange Traded Fund and American Depository Receipts, then what you will see on the friday, on which on Saturday and I recorded this video and this is the data from Friday.

There are one hundred twenty seven stock, which are making meeting four percent plus condition.

So this is one of the stocks which is meeting four percent condition.

As you can see, the stock is of seven point nine one percent. So it's up more than four percent.

The stock has volume which is greater than yesterday's volume.

The five point two million volume is greater than yesterday where it was one point two million volume and the volume is greater than one hundred thousand.

So it meets all the three conditions. So it will appear in your bullish breakout scan.

So that is how a bullish breakout scan will work.

Let's look at four percent breakdown scan now this is a four percent breakdown scan and same thing.

And this is the scan now. Once you have these where you're looking for three conditions.

Stock is down four percent, volume is greater than V one and volume is greater than one hundred thousand.

And if you run it on friday, one hundred forty eight stocks met this particular condition.

This is the kind of a stock which will show up. Like if you see there stock is down.

Eight percent right volume is greater than yesterday's volume.

Volume today was five hundred ninety nine thousand shares traded, yesterday was three hundred thirty seven shares traded right and volume is greater than one hundred thousand.

So this is an example of a bearish breakdown.

So four percent breakout and four percent breakdown looks for a range EXP expansion when a stock shows up in a four percent breakout or four percent breakdown.

And if it didn't had that kind of a breakout yesterday or day before yesterday, then it's a range expansion or it is a startup of a momentum burst.

Now not all stocks which show up in a scan are going to meet your buy conditions or sell conditions.

But before we look at the buy conditions and sell conditions I will show you in the next video.

How to set up this particular scan in TC Two thousand step by step for both bullish and bearish side.

How to set up a four percent scan.

Let's look at how do you set up four percent scan in order to do that.

Let's look at TC Two thousand and in TC Two thousand will try and set up this scan.

So you know exactly how you can do this.

When I go to TC Two thousand, this is what you are going to look at right and basically so here is the step by step how you do it.

So when you are in TC Two thousand, go to new open combo list right and name this four percent breakout.

Bullish right AD list. That is what kind of stocks you want to use this scan on US stocks.

You add American repository receipts, you can add ETF's, so you added all this.

Now this is the source list which we are going to scan on this. Add the condition of four percent.

So we are going to write formula. So write formula here.

We are going to call this four percent breakout bullish. So we set it up there.

So C by c one is greater than equal to one point zero four.

That means the stock is up four percent and volume is greater than yesterday's volume.

So V by V one and V is. Greater than or equal to one hundred thousand.

So today volume is greater than one hundred thousand. So this is true now. Once you put this in and.

And you'll get one hundred and twenty seven stocks.

So what you want is, you don't want it separately here.

So you can tag this, move this window and tab here.

So now you have four percent breakout here bullish four percent breakout similarly we'll create a four percent breakdown, so for four percent breakdown again same steps new and then you're looking at a combo list, combo list name this four percent breakdown.

Once you do decide to do that, add list again, your stocks will add ADR And we'll add ETF's.

And once we add that we are going to add condition, we are going to write the formula four percent breakdown.

So in this case c divided by C one is less than or equal to zero point nine six that means it is down four percent plus and V is greater than or equal to V one and V is greater than or equal to one hundred thousand and once you do that, what you are going to get is four percent breakdown again the same thing.

So you want to move this. In order to move this you move window move and tab here.

So now what you have is you have four percent breakout, you have four percent breakdown, so four percent breakout, you have one hundred twenty seven stocks, four percent breakdown, you have one hundred and forty eight stocks, this includes your ETF right now in case you want to like and not trade very low price stocks, because when you go through this list now you're going to find some stocks, which are going to be really really low priced kind of a stocks, right?

And basically so if you don't want that what you can do is, you can go here and add a filter and that filter so choose condition and go to price say let's say that We don't want to look at breakouts and stocks price below three dollars.

So we can add this is greater than three dollars.

Once you add that your number of breakouts has dropped to seventy-three same thing you.

Can do here where you can like add a condition, saying I don't want to look at like an so go choose condition, make it price and once you make it price, set it to less than greater than again three only right?

So you will get ninety stocks.

So this is how you can set up four percent breakout bullish and four percent breakdown bearish and you are all set to start scanning using four percent breakout and four percent breakdown.

Setting up a scan is the first step to that Let's Look at TC Two Thousand and. Twenty.

How to set up four percent breakout and breakdown.

Chart template is what we are going to discuss in this particular video.

If you have four percent breakout and breakdown.

Days visible on the chart, then you know where a four person breakout happens and it is going to help you visually to identify where a four person breakout has happened or where a poor person breakdown has happened.

So let's go to TC two thousand for this.

And then when we go to TC two thousand, I will show you how to set this up in TC two thousand.

So this is how TC two thousand looks now currently right?

I want to add four percent breakout and breakdown like you see here on this particular chart.

So in order to do that I start with this particular symbol, which is a new chart or you can also go and look at chart and you can start with a new chart.

But we are going to start from here, because then it will just add it to the layout on the site right?

So chart and then blank Chart is what we selected when we came in here.

This is how it will look right.

And this is how by default it is going to look based on whatever setting I have selected.

So let's start editing chart properties.

The first thing I selected here is candlestick now the candles I don't want in green, I want in black.

So I can change that to black right once I do that edit plots there is nothing here.

Pre-Post Data When Pre-Post Scaling All those you. Don't, I don't do here anything Now these lines.

If you don't want these lines, then you can just like and get rid of those lines by setting this to zero so that way you can get a clean chart if you want you can like any.

If you want your watermark to be like not visible so much, then you can like any.

You can like and play around with this to get your watermark really.

Or you want like anything bold you can get that way right. So this is what I got it.

So this is how first your chart is now right now what you are looking at is there is a gap here between this price close and there, which is unnecessary gap, so I don't like.

So you see this triangle, this is a small triangle here.

So I'm going to use this triangle to take it to the completely to this side now again charts.

If they are scale like this where they are very high, they look very different.

So normally I scale it to around fifty percent of this. I take it down using this triangle again.

So this is the first stage. This is a chart now which just has price. You need to add volume to it.

So in order to add volume, you go to left click edit add plot search for volume right.

So volume you added volume to it. By default it is going to add volume with a moving average fifty.

I don't try need moving average fifty, so I can take it out if you like you can keep it now volume by default they made these prices green and red, you can change that to black, which is what I have and red okay, so that is the thing which is their volume right now after you do that you can take this down to make it a small window.

Now we are going to add to this particular thing the four percent condition bullish and bearish, so that you know whether this was a this was a four percent breakout or whether this was a four percent breakdown or a breakout or this was a four percent breakdown things like that right in order to do that, but again we are going to left click add plot.

Now you have to go to custom PCF percentage true indicator, because the four percent breakout is a condition which can be either yes or no right?

So either it is true or false so that's why Custom PCF true indicator.

When you go and click on that by default TC two thousand is going to put a scan which is C by C one so you want.

To change that, So I'm going to change this, so you go left click edit and when you edit first thing I'm going to change from line.

I'm going.

To change it to area the color because we are going to put the bullish condition First I want to visually put bullish condition as green, so I'm going to put it as green here right?

And now area fill color now this is how it will look right and I want to fill the area with a green color only so lighter green right And so I made it lighter green right?

And so this is the thing now I want to remove this condition and put our four percent condition.

So four percent condition C by C one is greater than or equal to one point zero four right and V is greater than V one and V is greater than or equal to one hundred thousand.

So once we decide this, we can make this as four, because that is the bullish side of it Now once I click OK on this here is what you are going to get, you're going to get whenever this stock made four percent condition, you're going to get this green spike right?

So you can go and see on some other stock beyond meat right?

And so on this particular day it had a four percent breakout, it had a four percent breakout also on this day it had a four percent breakout here so here it had a four percent record right here it had a four percent record, not on that particular thing, right?

And wherever that, now this is just the bullish side, we are going to add the bearish side to this particular same scan again same thing at plot, go to custom PC up true indicator, now this is formula, click on it, edit.

Now we are going to convert this to area and we are going to make it red and we are going to change this fill color to whatever, like so pink, right?

And now we can like any make this formula c by C one is less than or equal to zero point nine six, so the stock is down four percent plus and V is greater than or equal to V is greater than V one and the third.

Condition V is greater than or equal to one hundred thousand, So once we add this condition and make this as four to tell you, because visually you know this is red, right?

And basically so once you come here, what is going to happen is a bullish condition, will look like this bearish condition will look like this.

Now you do not want them in separate panel, you want them in the same panel, in order to put them in the same panel.

What I am going to do is see here you have this move, right?

I'm going to move this move and overlay, so when I moved and overlaid, now you have four percent breakout and breakdown.

In the same chart, right?

Now once you have this, you can adjust the size of these panels and once you adjust the size of this panel, you have four percent breakout and four percent breakdown, which has been set up on a scan.

Now you will see that, whenever you see my charts, this is on the top and this is at the bottom.

If you want to do that, what you can do is, you can just again move the panel up and do that way.

Or what you can do is, you can take volume down, so it's easier to take volume down, so you click on this right and insert here so volume is at the bottom and four percent breakouts are.

On the top.

So you want to know like say for any stock Tesla, where there is a four percent breakout, here there is a four percent breakout here there was a four percent breakdown, right?

Here there was a four percent breakout here there was a four percent breakout which started a move and that move was fourteen percent, right?

And this is very useful visually, because then you know where four percent breakout happened on any stock, like Apple didn't have a four percent breakout for a long period of time, it had a four percent breakout here, which really didn't follow through, right?

So that is the way you can use this on any chart now.

What you'll see is that on my four percent charts. When you see my charts, right?

It has additional this panel and many of you want that particular thing, which is an indicator called momentum indicator.

So if you want to add that, I'm going to add this on this particular chart, so that you have a complete chart set up for four percent breakout.

So in order to add that just what I'm going to do is edit chart properties again not edit chart properties, I'm going to go add plot right and make custom PCF true indicator.

Now this indicator is trend intensity, which in a separate guide we are going to cover trend intensity, but for the time being the bullish part of this again, we convert it into area, we make it green and then we are going to make this light green.

And here we are going to write average C seven divided by average C sixty five is greater than or equal to one point zero five and we are going to make this as sixty five or we can just label it as TI.

So once we label it as a T I. What you get is, you get a panel which looks like this.

So what we are going to do is.

We are going to move this panel and overlay it on the volume, so we overlaid it in the volume, right?

We are going to add the bearish part of this particular thing, so add plot go to custom PCF plus PC of true indicator again formula we are going to change first we are going to change this to area, then we are going to change this to red and then we are going to change this to light red.

So that it tells you that like this is like this, and we are going to change this formula.

Average C seven divided by average c sixty five is less than or equal to zero point nine five right?

So once you do that you are going to get and then you can make this as TI again, so you know it is a T I.

And once you do that, you're going to get periods where the trend industry was negative now I want to overlay this on this particular thing.

So again go here and overlay and here you will have a complete chart where you have TI sixty five and the plotted on the volume scale and four percent breakout and four percent breakdown plotted.

Now once you do this important step is next, you must save this, save this chart and then give it a name.

So let's take a look and we call it four P OK?

Because I want to distinguish from the four I already have may be having there.

So once you save this, then you're going to get four P now in case.

This disappears and you cannot find it. It's very easy to find it again.

When you go here what you will see chart and all these things which are there, you'll have your four P here, so whatever chart you have created will show up in the blank chart basically if you do it that way, so this is how you set up a four percent breakout and a four percent breakdown chart, add a TI sixty five indicator to it and once you do that, you're all set to start making money using this particular scan.

When to run four percent breakout and breakdown scans.

Once you have four percent breakout and breakdown scans, when should you start, when should you run it?

The answer is I start running my scan as soon as the market opens, as soon as the market opens, the four percent breakout and four percent breakdown scans start running now.

If you have a TC two thousand it's very important to understand this.

If you are just a gold membership and that means you will have a delayed data of twenty minutes, so if you have a delayed data of twenty minutes, you're not going to find any candidate for almost first half an hour or forty five minutes.

So in order for the scans to start showing you results immediately first, you need an add on data, real time add on data, which I don't think I think and it cost around twelve dollars.

So that's the thing I personally use a platinum version, the platinum plan on TC two thousand, so my scans run immediately as soon as the market opens.

So let's look at like when the market opens, what is going to happen is, your scans will start populating, so let's go to TC two thousand and look at TC two thousand.

So this is this day is up day, so you are not going to see the thing, but like the scans will start showing you candidates as and when the market opens now.

The stocks which show up in the first few minutes or the stocks which show up, they are the stocks which are going to build over a period of time.

So most of the stocks which break out with four percent breakout, which go on to make a big move, they typically show up in the first half an hour or first one hour of the market.

Open. Most of them will show up in first half an hour of the market, right?

And then the scan keeps building sometimes in the market.

What happens is you get a lot of buying coming in in the afternoon.

So in that case, if there is a lot of buying which comes in in the afternoon, then you have four percent record scan going up during.

The afternoon.

But most days, if it is a bull market, what you're going to see is, stocks will show up in your scan early in the morning and the stocks, the first set of stocks which show up are the one which are good candidate.

The reason is that if they have a genuine momentum burst, then for rest of the day, they keep on going up.

For rest of the day, they keep on going up.

So what I do for my trading is start running four percent breakout, four percent breakdown scan right from the opening print and as and when stock starts showing up the first good setup which I see I'm going to buy or the second or third, right?

And basically the immediately most of the time in the first half an hour, you're going to get lot more trades than you have capital.

So when do you start running, you start running, you can run it throughout the day, I run it throughout the day.

If I didn't find a good candidate in the first half an hour, will I buy a stock at eleven o'? Clock?

Yes. Will I buy it at two o'? Clock? Yes. Will I buy it at three? Yes.

Will I buy it at three hundred and fifty eight? Yes.

If there is a good setup in things, but the answer to your question or answer to when should you run four percent record scan, you start running four percent record scan as soon as the market opens now a lot of you are going to ask the question which I've been asked many times.

Is that. But by the time the stock shows up in four percent record, it is too late.

If that is the question which you are asking you, your understanding of Momentum burst is an issue, because the reason why we are selecting stocks for Momentum burst is, they are showing certain magnitude move which is four percent breakout.

So if you can find that stock when it is up only one percent or two percent, if there is no guarantee that it is having a momentum bust at all or it is having a range expansion.

So any stock which is going to show up in four percent breakout is going to be already up four percent or five percent.

Or six percent or sometimes.

If you're going to be trading stocks price below ten dollars, you're going to find stocks which will be up ten percent, twenty percent.

So should that stop you from buying that stock?

No, the whole idea of momentum burst is, there is a range expansion.

The range expansion has to be certain magnitude for it to have a follow through.

Just getting in early on a stock and trying to get in early before it has a four percent account that's not going to work.

Second objection which I hear all the time is your four percent record scan has this V by V one condition and V by V one condition will never be met in the first half of the day.

The answer is you're wrong.

The V by V one condition can be met at nine thirty as soon as the market opens, the market opens and if there is more buyers than yesterday's, buying the stock is going to meet.

So the stocks do meet this condition and I have been trading this for twenty-two years and I've.

Seen every day stocks meeting this condition.

These objections are coming in from not understanding the setup, not understanding the momentum first stocks which have V by V one being met first.

Thing in the morning and stocks which are meeting your one hundred thousand conditions are the one which are being strongly bought.

Buying a stock which doesn't meet V by V one condition and doesn't meet one hundred thousand condition.

You are going to buy something which doesn't have momentum, which doesn't have range expansion, which doesn't have volume expansion and the probability of that working may not be very high.

So understand four percent breakout does show stocks starting to show up right from first minute.

You'll find two or three stocks which will show up in first two or three minutes and they will continue to grow and by half an hour many times, if it is a good bull market, you're going to get sixty seventy eighty sometimes hundred stocks showing up in four percent record scan.

So when to run four percent record scan throughout the day, but first half is where the real money is in four percent breakout and all your objections about V by V one and all your objections it is already up ten percent stems from your understanding of how prices move in the market.

So please spend some time doing deep dives and understanding the mechanics of this particular setup before just going and modifying your scans and trying and entering setups which are not even breaking out.

So once you run a four percent breakout scan on the bundes side, you need to select the right kind of a stock from it in order to select the right kind of a stock from it, there are certain quality control parameters or quality of the setup parameters which you need.

To use to select the right setup, because the setup which you select should be capable of going up for next three to four days.

So for that I have a set of conditions, which are like a checklist kind of conditions.

And if you use those checklist kind of conditions, then what is going to happen is?

You will every time find the right high probability setup from four percent breakout, which has a very high probability of going up.

If you don't use the parameters and just buy a random four percent breakout, you are not going to make money.

And if you start using the parameters which I am going to talk about next, then what will happen is?

You will have higher access.

These parameters are called toledge and I am going to show you what really is to lynch and each element of two Lynch, so to lynch is a short form of set of conditions which a stock needs to meet in order for me to consider it as a buy.

And what does this tool? Inch means two lynch I am just going to explain to you simply.

And then we will look at each element of it in detail to linge first condition is two, which means the stock should not be of two days in a row.

L stands for linearity, Y stands for young, N stands for negative or narrow range day, C stands for consolidation quality and H stands for close near high.

So let's look at two out of this two out of two links.

What does two out of two links means the stock should not be up two days in a row before the breakout.

Now, when you say that stock should not be up two days in a row, sometimes the stock will be up just zero point one percent or zero point two percent or zero point one percent.

I will take that kind of a stock. Still I do not consider a move of up to two percent as something.

The stock is up much, so two days in a row.

If a stock is up, the swing for that stock has already started.

So you have to select a stock where before the four percent breakout the stock is not up two days in a row.

Little bit of a giveaway like half a percent it was up. I will still take it.

But the ideal candidate is one which is not up two days in a row.

So out of two lanes we looked at two. So stock should not be of two. Next thing is L.

L stands for linearity.

Linearity means stocks should not be very choppy I do not want to trade very choppy stocks by choice.

Choppier stocks require wider stock. Choppier stocks are unpredictable.

Choppier stocks intraday can also be very choppy, so your stops are not going to work very well.

So as a quality criteria.

Whenever I am selecting a four percent breakout kind of a setup, I'm looking for a setup where that stock has a history of very linear moves.

Linearity means predictable moves.

Linearity means the stock had in years previous moves lot of buying.

You want to see a stock which has a consistent and persistent buying.

If a stock has a consistent and persistent buying, it will have linearity.

If it doesn't have consistent and persistent buying, it has choppiness now.

By selecting stocks which have high linearity, we increase the probability of setup working.

Because if a stock had a very high, persistent and continuous buying and then it was not going up, it was going sideways or it had a minor pullback and it was not up two days in a row and then it has a four percent breakout.

That particular setup has got a much higher probability of working than a choppier stock.

Linearity is extremely important to me.

I only select linear setups and I avoid under any circumstances choppy setup. So look for linearity.

So first set condition two. If a stock is up two days in a row, you don't even look at it.

Linearity is a problem. I don't want to be even going further. Linearity. Most important criteria.

So in Toolinch we looked at two. Stock should not be of two days in a row.

Stock should have linearity.

But there is another thing which I look for and which is very important. It should be a young setup.

And what is a young setup?

Something which is breaking out and which has got only first or second setup.

When stocks keep on going up, they set up at third time or fourth time.

And if they set up third or fourth time, and if you take a setup which is third or fourth setup in a continuous move, then the probability of that failing is much much higher.

So younger setup is what I am looking for, Not only younger setup, typically four percent breakout kind of methods or any breakout kind of methods work better on younger stock.

That means stocks which are ipod in last ten years, very old stocks are not going to make explosive moves.

What you want is younger things, young, younger things, right?

And there is a reason why sixty year old H fund managers date twenty year old girls, right?

Or why Leonardo DiCaprio trades only girls below twenty five. Same reason.

When you want to trade setups, you want to trade younger setups.

Not something which is a third or fourth leg of a move.

Look for the first or second leg of move that is what is called as young.

So you are going to look at first.

Should not we have two days in a row, then linearity and then it is a young setup.

If these three conditions are met, then we will look at the next thing.

And the next thing is also important. But the three things first are the most important.

Two not up two days, linearity and young.

So when we are looking at two Lynch, not up two days in a row linear young, the next thing is before the breakout, before the breakout.

The day before the breakout should be negative day or a narrow day.

That means, the day before the breakout should be either down day or it should.

Be something where the stock has a very narrow range day, either a doji or some sort of a small candle.

You don't want stock which is already going up because you want to buy a breakout at a start up a swing and narrow.

Or negative is very important, because if you take stocks which are narrow or negative day, then the volatility has been low before the breakout.

And when the breakout happens, it explodes.

And when it explodes, it will make that ten, twenty thirty, forty percent move in next three to five days.

If you select stocks which doesn't have this condition, you're not going to make much money.

So let's see two Lynch, we look, we are looking at not up to days in order linearity, young and narrow or negative day.

Whenever you're looking at a four percent breakout, it is going to start from some sort of a consolidation and that.

Or you are selecting stocks which are going to start from a consolidation.

So in order to do that we looked at two which is not up two days in a row, linearity, negative or narrow range.

But the consolidation before this breakout is extremely critical.

The quality of consolidation again, what I look for in quality of consolidation.

The first thing during the consolidation, the stock should not be having more than one four percent breakdown.

If a stock has two or three four percent breakdowns in the consolidation, that means there are not strong buyers in that particular stock that is the kind of stocks where breakout is going to fail and I don't want that kind of a breakout Ideal candidate in consolidation.

There is no four percent breakdown, but I will take a candidate which has one percent breakdown in consolidation.

The other thing which I look for in a consolidation very important is, consolidation should be tight.

That means the volatility during the consolidation should be very low. It should be very orderly.

You should not have too much up and down moves.

You should not have the stock jumping all over the place. Very orderly.

Consolidation is very important.

The next thing is during the consolidation, the volume should be low.

If the volume is low in consolidation and volume really keeps on dropping during the consolidation.

That means there are not many sellers and whatever selling is happening is being absorbed.

If you have too much high volume up and down days during the consolidation, that means there are no settled buyers or there are no strong buyers in this particular name.

So consolidation quality is the next thing in two lynch so not up to days in a row, linear, young, narrow or negative day and consolidation quality.

When you apply this set of criteria to your hundred or two hundred stocks, which are showing up in four percent record, you'll be left with only two or three or four good ideas.

Consolidation quality extremely important, so we are looking at two links and we looked at stock not of two days in a row.

Linearity that means very smooth move young stock or a young setup right, narrower, negative day.

Consolidation quality, But the last criteria is equally important.

The stock should be closing near high when you select it to buy.

If a stock had a breakout, it went up a lot during the day and it starts pulling back.

That's the kind of stock which you buy.

There is no momentum which is going to be lasting if on the first day of its breakout itself.

If it cannot maintain momentum, what makes you think that it is going to have momentum second day or third day.

So every time whenever you are selecting stocks from four percent record, you want to select a stock which is closing as high as possible or as as close to high as possible.

Now you are not going to be only selecting stocks which close exactly at high, because stocks don't really close at high.

Many are going to give up some part of their move, which is a natural way in which stocks trade.

So I am willing to give up to thirty percent of the gains.

So if a stock is up ten dollars and if it like gives up three dollars and it is up still seven dollars, I'll still take it.

But you can increase, you have a choice. You don't have to take that stock.

Also you can only select a stock which is only giving up ten percent of its movement.

Twenty percent.

The stock which closes near the high is a better candidate for the simple reason it tells you something qualitatively about that breakout that there are still buyers at that price.

So select stocks which are closing near high, which means don't select stocks which are the big tails.

Don't select stocks which are given up half of the for days gain.

Don't select stocks which are given up sixty percent of the gain.

Select stocks which are stroke closing strong.

Now again I'm going to get a question and I know this question because I get it thousand times and I answered this ten thousand times in last twenty years open, then I cannot buy any breakout till end of the day.

No. When you are buying a breakout at that time, the stock should be closing near the high.

So at nine forty five or ten o', clock you're running two links, you're running four percent breakout scan.

At that time the stock should be closing near the high. Every minute of the market has a close.

So at that time, the stock should be closing near the high and closing near the high. Is important.

So in two lynch we looked at two L, Y and C H.

And now let us look at this combined together in the next slide, so that you understand what two lynch is.

So if you want to trade momentum burst kind of AA Breakout on four percent breakout.

The most important phrase which you need to not only remember, but really understand in depth is two links which is stock not up two days in a row.

Stock which has linearity stocks which has young setup.

That means either first leg of the move or second leg of the moon, not third, fourth, fifth or sixth leg of a movement.

New narrow or negative day prior to the breakout.

Consolidation quality there should not be more than one four percent breakdown in consolidation.

Consolidation should be orderly, consolidation should not have choppiness.

Consolidation should not have high volume selling and stock. Should close near high.

So if all these conditions are met, then only you select a stock and in your next set of videos.

I'm going to look at using this two Lynch criteria to what showed up in Friday's breakout scan and then we'll select stock based on two Lynch criteria.

OK?

Let's look at how you can apply the two Lynch criteria to actual scan which has happened on Friday.

So for that I'm going to go to TC two thousand and in TC two thousand run a scan four percent breakout right?

So this is the scan which we set up just few videos ago, which has a four percent condition and price is about three dollars, so you're getting seventy three stocks on this particular day.

Now everything which shows up is not a good buy candidate.

I'm going to use the two Lynch criteria which I discussed with you to select a good candidate in this particular list of stocks which are showing up.

So let's again, recap what is to Lynch? Two Lynch stands for not. Top two days in a row.

Linearity, young setup, narrower, negative day prior to breakout consolidation.

Quality should be good, not more than one four percent breakdown.

Low volume during consolidation, not a choppy consolidation.

Volatility should decrease during the consolidation. Stock should close near the high.

So if I go through this this stock is up two days in a row. This stock is already like an a was up.

There are two four percent breakdowns. Am I going to select this? No.

Now this is a very choppy stock. So linearity is an issue for this particular stock.

So am I going to select that no.

So here the stock is already like and there is no consolidation at all in this particular stock here the consolidation had like in a two three four percent breakdown.

This is a four percent breakdown, this is a four percent breakdown right two percent breakdown, so that is not a good candidate here again you have one four percent breakdown.

This is not an orderly consolidation. There are like a volume was high during this consolidation.

So it doesn't meet two range criteria here this.

Has the first leg, it's going sideways, it has a breakout.

Stock is not first, it is not closing near the high. So that's the next.

In this particular case again the consolidation quality, Consolidation has two four percent breakdowns.

Consolidation is choppy, Consolidation is not orderly, so this is not a good candidate now.

Let's go to this again.

If you look at this, there is no clear consolidation it is not really clearly breaking out, so no, this is a candidate where, if you look at it, you had this first leg, which was very linear, it had a very orderly pullback, there were no four percent breakdown and not.

Really.

The volume was low during this pullback and it is breaking out, it is closing near the high, so that's one candidate which I found after going through this particular list Here again, you have four percent breakdown, this is not consolidation, this is a deep pullback, kind of a thing.

Stock is not closing near high, so the moment you start using your condition to lynch, you can eliminate eighty ninety percent of the stocks which are showing up in your scan.

Now this is a first lake, it has an orderly consolidation or a pullback.

Stock is not really closing near the high.

If you look at closely, it has a lot of choppiness during its first lake.

So this is a B category, C category setup, which is maybe kind of a setup, unless somebody's putting gun to your head, I would not buy a setup like this again this doesn't meet criteria because clearly you have two four percent breakdown and this is where you'll realize the importance of having this things on your chart.

So you can quickly in one glance decide not to even focus on the stock, like this right plus stock is not closing near the high.

Again choppiness of this consolidation, first leg, second leg, third leg, fourth leg, this will be a fifth leg, so is it young.

No, so like this.

If you continue using this thing, you can eliminate because four, two, four percent breakdown, stock is not closing near high.

So the two launch condition is going to eliminate lot of stocks.

While here you have the first lake, you had a two, three days, three, four days of minor pullback and the stock is breaking out and it's closing near high.

So so you have another candidate here now, if you look at this, this consolidation is very choppy.

There's one huge high volume day.

The stock was up a day before, this day before break breakout, it was up three point, six, three, so it's not a good candidate again here, if you look at it, one, two, three, so you don't even need to go further and look at anything else.

The stock is also not closing near the high.

Stock is up two days in a row, so no stock is in a downtrend, actually right, and it's not closing near the high.

There is a high volume during this pullback. So no.

Stock is not closing near the high, so automatically it goes plus three four percent breakdown here you had this leg, but the volume was okay.

So can you consider this yes, right? So that can be a candidate.

It is closing near high, so that's a good candidate.

HPK not closing near high eliminated four percent breakdowns were there.

This stock is now up three days.

Almost four percent breakout was here, This is the third day upper swing and there's one big high volume down day.

Also in this particular consolidation. So answer is no, I'm not going to take this again.

Consolidation is very poor, no, consolidation is all over the place.

Stock is not closing near the high, Answer is no right.

Consolidation has two four percent breakdown, no. And so on and so forth.

If you keep going down, you can eliminate many of these stocks by using two lynch as a criteria.

And once you eliminate most of these stocks after going through this again like the consolidation.

Quality is very poor, this is in a downtrend, Stock is up two days in a row, so it is not a good stock.

Two four percent breakdowns again. Here.

Stock is up four days in a row, so that is not a good breakout, This is in a downtrend, right?

And basically. And so not closing near the high, Also so like this.

Let's go through this list using our criteria and see how many stocks meet now this consolidation quality is poor.

There's a breakdown, It's a deep consolidation, this thing.

Very choppy consolidation, so that's not a good setup, right again choppiness in the consolidation, This is a breakout here didn't work.

Next I ended up giving yes, so no, again two four percent breakdown itself is a killer here two percent breakdown killer.

Two percent four percent breakdown.

There is no consolidation, There is no consolidation quality so choppy can setup like this work, yes, I will let other people trade this kind of setups and make money.

I'm not going to get into setups which meet this kind of a consolidation. Quality and so on, right?

So as you keep going down, you will see that not many stocks are meeting The Condition of Four Percent Breakout on Friday.

And the stocks which are meeting the four percent breakout, we already identified some of them now.

This stock is like gapping up and giving up the gains, not closing.

So if you go through this Now we found ECH which is the ETF which is closing near the high and first lake, orderly pullback and negative or narrow range day before the consolidation consistent buying for four five days.

That's a good setup. This is choppy.

So you can eliminate that you have BCH again continuous buying in the first lake, orderly pullback, not a major pullback.

This pullback was hardly three percent breaking out, closing near high.

So it means two lynch condition. Again there is a buying here and then breaking out right?

So these are the three candidates which meet my criteria for buying in this particular thing.

So two lynch.

Once you apply to your four percent breakout list, what you are going to find is that eighty ninety percent of the setups which show up not even eighty ninety ninety five percent of the setups which show up are not going to meet your criteria, only select the A quality setup that's the trick to having higher win rate.

If you select B quality setup, you select setup which doesn't meet two linge criteria, then you'll be very frustrated reading a breakout method.

So again, what is the methodology?

You run a scan as soon as stock starts showing up, use two linge criteria and select stocks.

And when you select the stock and that meets all your criteria that is a by candidate for that particular.

Day.

