Now that we've gone over the concept of how expected value is dynamic and always changing over time as well as explored a few case study examples.

We're now going to level up this concept with an important advanced example.

MSTR on March Twenty Eighth Twenty Twenty Four MSTR had been.

Exploding higher caused by the resurgence of bitcoin prices with the stock rising from four hundred dollars to almost two thousand dollars in fairly short order going into March twenty eighth.

The stock had held prior bar lows on the daily and made a sharp move to highs with the prior day's low at around eighteen forty or so.

The stock, despite largely holding most of its market cap in Bitcoin, was moving far more than the underlying asset and trading on a huge premium to the value of its Bitcoin holdings, causing many to declare the stock dangerously overvalued, but it had been otherwise proving resilient Pre market On March twenty eighth Carousel Capital, a fairly well known boutique short biased research firm, came out negative on MSTR, citing that the ticker was trading at a huge premium and that this premium would be unlikely to last as the company issues convertible debt.

Many traders myself included, tended to scoff a little bit at this report, because they were stating what everyone already knew.

Given how obvious this report was, I did not choose to short the stock on its release, thinking that the probability that this short report would catch momentum and cause the stock to crack is unlikely, perhaps maybe a five to ten percent chance.

In fact, it seems most agreed with this assessment as the stock's mild initial drop pre-market was paired by market open and the stock was unchanged.

What interestingly happens though is at ten AM the stock actually rolls below those pre market reaction lows, much like the poker player's odds shifting as the cards on the flop are turned over.

An astute trader needs to recognize that breaking those lows is a key signal.

The odds of this move starting to catch momentum meaningfully increases at ten AM, perhaps to twenty five percent.

That, being said without an intraday setup, that increase in odds might not be enough to give me significant positive expected value.

Everyone by now should know that win rate is just part.

Of the equation and useless without a risk reward that justifies the trade then at about ten fifteen AM.

Something even more interesting happens, the stock cracks enough intraday that we have now broken prior daily bar lows of eighteen forty and the daily.

Trend higher is now broken.

My estimation that this stock might crack could be as high as forty to fifty percent now.

But again I generally still need a nice intraday setup to give me the real juicy expected value around eleven.

Am is finally where.

The magic happens.

Let's pause and analyze this big picture.

Now we have a stock that has made a massive run up over the last.

Few months, far more than the value of its underlying Bitcoin holdings.

The stock has a news catalyst that certainly has caused overvalued stocks to crack before.

And now we've finally broken prior bar lows on the daily.

Then we set up intraday with a tight clean consolidation close to lows.

All of those variables are necessary to have positive expected value.

Any of them alone is not enough.

This is what makes trading so hard and why I always pound the table on how important paying attention to the nuances of all these variables is the tight intraday consolidation by lows.

Once the daily uptrend has been broken, allows us to have the odds in our favor as well as beautifully skewed risk reward so that you have a clear defined stop and can make multiples in reward.

That is exactly what happens when MSTR then rolls to lows and makes an incredible leg lower perfectly holding prior bar highs allowing you to.

Capture pretty much all of it with a simple system as Mike Bella Fiori of SMB Capital would say now.

That is one good trade.

Many experienced traders, I know miss this trade why?

Because they like me were initially skeptical of the odds of that Short report gaining momentum.

The difference was much like in Poker they didn't adapt.

As the hand unfolded, you need to be constantly updating your odds and expected value as new information occurs.

Breaking below the pre market reaction lows increased the odds of success.

Breaking prior day lows on the daily also increased the odds of success.

Then the intraday setup gave you everything you needed.

Executing on it though is only possible if you have fully internalized that expected value is dynamic and like in poker, even a two seven can become an incredible hand as the data changes over over time.

Please, please, please take your time to understand and internalize this concept.

This case study was very intentionally chosen, because it demonstrates the concept so well.

Make sure in your own training that you are always updating your expected value estimates as a plan folds.

It's critical to find success at this job expected value and understanding how it changes over time and is everything.

