The big breakthrough.

Sorry to break this to you, but size matters and for those that need it clarified.

I'm talking about growing your trading account.

If you're an experienced trader who has been at this game for a while, there is nothing you want more than to be able to grow your account at a rapid rate.

I know what it's like to sit there so frustrated month after months, year after year, without having the big breakthrough in profitability.

So many other traders always seem to highlight in their success stories.

What if I told you there is a way to grow your account more rapidly without changing your strategy or the setups that you trade, it all comes down to sizing, exponential bet sizing to be specific surprisingly.

This applies not only to traders who are struggling to grow, but traders who are also considering consistently profitable.

You can be green and have consistency, but if you fail to scale, you will never reach escape velocity to reach your full potential and make trading more than just a hobby.

You need to learn how to bet enough to earn a living and make all your hard work worth it.

Many traders know this.

They want to trade bigger, but they don't know how to do so safely.

I witnessed countless stories of those that have attempted sizing up only to end up being in a hole that left them more frustrated and less confident than when they began.

For those of you that have tried in the past or have done so incorrectly and ultimately given up, I'm here to help let me preface.

This concept is not for beginners.

If you're a beginner, I can't stress enough how important it is for you to be building out a basic playbook, finding consistency and and learning the nuances of your plays.

This whole concept is premised on the idea of you being able to tell an A trade from a B trade and so on.

And not everyone can do that.

It requires a close eye to nuance and a lot of experience.

If you're not confident in knowing whether your trade is just okay or great or if it's a month making opportunity in real time stick to the basics, learn your fundamentals and come back to this topic when you're ready.

The other preface is, you must be able to focus on size without letting it alter your system or change the psychology behind your entries and exits.

If you are confident in your skill, set to the point of being able to focus consciously on your size without letting it change the expected value of your trading.

Only then can we now proceed.

So what is exponential bet sizing in a nutshell.

It's being able to scale your bet size dramatically with respect to the quality of the opportunity or the expected value of a play.

As traders tend to get more and more experienced, their bet sizing also starts to become more and more skewed.

It might surprise you, but elite traders often make over eighty percent of their year from less than five percent of their trades.

In fact, trading firms probably make about ninety percent of their P and L on just ten percent of the trading days.

All of that is because on the best of opportunities.

Elite traders are betting magnitudes.

More on the best couple opportunities of the year.

There are a few variables that go into this successfully.

And the first is having a proper understanding of your trades and a grading system to go along with it.

Personally.

I'd have trades graded across a scale of A, B, C and D, and here's how they would differentiate an A trade at least for me occurs a few times per month.

These are the memorable standout trades that you end.

Up looking back on at the end of the year.

These are the home run trades that you really want to go big on and often bet exponentially more if your trading skill allows for it.

A B trade for me is something that can happen dozens of times per month.

These could be the best trades of the day.

Pretty common, but overall still pretty great in baseball terms.

These are the singles at the end of the week.

You'd likely still be reviewing these ops.

A C trade is just an average mediocre everyday trade.

Maybe you have a bit of edge, maybe it's a small scalp, nothing to write home about.

These have slight positive expected value, but it certainly won't be taking up to too much of your review time.

Finally, a D trade is a mediocre fifty fifty toss up trade or even a negative expected value trade that you get sucked into Having such a defined grading system allows me to.

Be very systematic and intentional with my trading and sizing.

If I knew in the moment I was just in a B trade, I would try to push it and maybe get ten thousand dollars worth of risk.

But if all of a sudden I I realized this.

Was transitioning into something special that might be the best trade all month I knew, I'd have to push my size to be much, much larger.

On most days I was only risking thousands of dollars, but on those select special days I might be risking hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars.

That extreme level of bet sizing allows traders to become seven figure and even eight figure figure traders.

So many people in the trading community believe in equal bet sizing.

Meaning whether it's an A or a D grade setup, you risk the same every time personally.

I don't believe that is the most optimal way to do it.

Let's take a prime example out of poker for the sake of simplicity.

Imagine sitting at the poker table with one other player over the course of two hands, and this is what you draw nine two and ace ace.

The estimated win percentage for these hands looks something like.

The nine two has a win percentage of thirty eight point nine percent, and pocket aces is eighty five point three percent.

If you as the player sitting at the table were to bet equally across each hand, do you think you'd walk away with any winnings in the long run?

The answer is a resounding no.

Due to the fact that you're not taking advantage of exponential bet sizing.

When you draw pocket aces, you know that.

Although it's not guaranteed, you have the strongest hand possible to start with and it's time to start raising your bets.

This is where you have the highest chance to make some money the question begs.

How often do you even get deltas statistically.

The probability of being Delta is one in two hundred, twenty one or a little under half a percent Given how rarely this happens.

If it happens, you need to not only recognize it, but capitalize on it.

If you have less than a half percent chance of drawing.

Cards that give you close to an eighty five percent probability of winning, you go for it every time.

Does it mean you will always win.

Of course not, but over the long run this will prove to be profitable.

This is the equivalent of an a trade.

You need to be able to recognize and capitalize by betting exponentially.

Imagine, if the player only bets slightly more when drawing aces compared to drawing a nine two, that would be insane as you become conscious of how much risk you're putting on.

I recommend you start this with some of the slowest and easiest trades.

First you don't need to be pushing size on a fast moving breaking news headline where you're already trying to analyze fifty different things all at once.

Find the trades that you're able to game plan for something that is slow moving where you can.

Consciously plan how much risk you want, how good the setup is and what that equates to for you in share size now.

Remember, I'm teaching you what I believe is the most optimal betting method.

Ultimately you need to do what is right for you.

Everyone will have their own preference for how extreme they want to employ this.

But keep in mind, if I was betting uniformly on my trades regardless of quality, the same as if you made that mistake in poker, I probably wouldn't have a career if at this point you're wondering what percent of your account should you be risking or how much risk should you have in individual plays.

I can't answer that, because it's different for everyone.

If you've got a strategy where you win ninety nine percent of the time, it's inherently going to allow you to size up way more comfortably and quickly than someone whose strategy only hits ten percent of the time.

Once you're consistently profitable and able to differentiate between the quality of your plays is when you want to consider scaling your size, but the road to overcoming the first two requirements is not easy.

So make sure you're ready I'll be waiting here for when you are in the next videos.

I'm going to prove to you the math behind exponential bed sizing as well as.

Share with you my trick to help me size better in real time.

