I hope some of you, as this video begins are screaming at your computers.

Lance, we already know the answer.

It is all based on expected value that would make me very proud because it is.

But in this video, we're going to get into some of the nuances of how I find that pans out in practice when it comes to adding to positions to ensure that my entries are aligning with significant positive expected value.

My general rule is that I only add when that new exposure would be a trade independent of my current position.

I find that moments of meaningful positive expected value are very, very specific in time, for example initiating positions at the exact breakout level or the exact break of prior bar highs or as quickly as possible after a breaking news headline comes out, Most amateur traders tend to add to their position as their trade is working in their favor, regretful for not having gotten more stock when expected value was best and lulled into the trap set by their comforted psyche while their P and L is going up.

The problem with this is that, as most trades are working in our favor, expected value is often going down.

I'd say ninety percent of times when I work with new traders, they are adding size when it's most comfortable, not when expected value is best, and in turn they harm their average price in the process mixing an initial good trade with mediocre were often awful ads.

So like I said times where I might be adding to my exposure are when the chart sets up in a way that independent of my current position that would be a true entry for me and my trading system.

For example in a mean reversion trade, I might sometimes be buying stock intrabar because I judge it to be very high expected value and then adding when the trend truly breaks, for example a break of a trend line or at a break of prior bar highs only if I judge the expected value to still be extremely favorable and I'd be taking the trade even if I had no position.

What I then do is treat the positions totally independently as their own trades.

If I am holding some size as a swing position, that size will be traded exactly based on the rules for my swing trades.

And if I added size as a scalp, that size will be traded exactly based on the rules of my scalps.

What I so often see is, traders will add up on their position because it is psychologically easy while the trade is working, but then the worst average price results in them bailing on their whole position prior to the true stop that they should have been using.

Essentially these traders are being swayed by their psychology, not by the expected value math.

They are adding where it's mentally easy and getting out where it's mentally uncomfortable.

If you think of your ads as true trade entries.

Independent of each other, it makes all of the subsequent decisions way easier.

You don't need to worry about your average price.

You don't need to worry what the right stop should be you already know because these are two clear precise entries based on strategies already in your playbook, as opposed to haphazard ads.

To soothe your sense of regret for not getting more size when the expected value was best, Here's a project for you.

If you aren't sure whether you are adding to your positions properly start collecting data manually or using traderview or other software to assess how the expected value of your initial position at the true entry compares to the expected value of your ads.

All the trades you tag as ads are you still making money on them.

If not, then you need to cut them out and reassess your strategy for adding size.

If you are making money on them, but significantly less than on your initial entries, you need to consider shifting more of that size over to the initial entry where expected value is higher.

Most traders have not done this type of objective, granular work, but that is a hard, uncomfortable work that leads to true growth and progress.

Want to know how I came upon these best practices because I was doing the same garbage trading that everyone else was.

I was adding when psychologically easiest, not when expected value was best.

My ads were weighing down the good trading I was doing at my initial entry, but I only found that out and was able to correct it and develop these rules because I was doing the tough objective analysis.

Looking at my own trading data.

My rules may or may not be the best for you.

The only way you can come upon what rules are going to be best for you is to crunch the data and figure out which of your entries reflect the best expected value, additional positive expected value or negative expected value.

So if you are in your head right now, sheepishly wondering whether your ads are sabotaging the rest of your trading time to call up grandma and cancel your weekend plans with her, because you've got some data crunching to do have fun.

This weekend.

