At all levels of trading. Risk management is essential to ensure you don't blow up your account, whether you're a seasoned professional or just starting out. Understanding how to navigate the complexities of risk is critical for preserving capital and maximizing returns. In this overview we'll delve into the fundamental principles of risk management for traders and explore practical strategies to to mitigate risk and enhance your profitability. The way I look at it. Risk management encompasses the set of rules, systems and processes that you institute to protect yourself from losing or giving back more P and L than you otherwise would have intended. Trading comes at you fast and there is no undo button in this game. There are no mulligans, no second chances, no sympathy from the market. Given how high the stakes are and how psychologically difficult trading can be. We need to protect ourselves from when we go on tilt and we rage trade or when. Something insane or irrational in the market happens. If you don't protect yourself, it won't be long before you find out firsthand that any move can always become more irrational as the saying goes. The market can stay irrational longer than we can stay solvent. When that happens, your risk management is there to protect you. Truth be told, my trainer had poor risk management practices that didn't. Stop him from being an incredible trader. But what that did mean is I inherited those poor practices and had to build my own system of rules and protocols from learning the hard way over time. So what are the best practices for you, if you're newer or even experienced, but struggling never ever underestimate the value of trading in demo or trading one share positions. Millions of dollars are lost every year by newbies who have no proven edge trading sizable amounts of capital, which is as good as gambling it away. I can't tell you how often I've heard the sad story of traders that had no business trading live blowing away their hard earned money or their life savings. There is no shame and in demo there is no shame in trading. Just one share. If you can't psychologically accept either of those options in the early stages, while you develop your edge, trading will not be friendly to you, just think about it in poker terms. If you are new to the game, would you sit down at the dollar five ten table? No, you'd want to play for free or bet pennies for as long as possible. While you learned the game and built up your skill set. Every single trade you do must follow a system with a predefined stop. There are indeed certain trades where one might be willing to risk the stock going to zero. But even then your loss is capped. You always, always, always need to know the max amount you are risking in a trade. Keep in mind how difficult this gets in stocks that are facing volatility halts Putting on the short side. The way to control risk is a mix of having a stop and then position sizing. Too many newbies make the fatal mistake of staying away from in place stocks with real edge, because they are afraid they are too much risk or that they can't control their risk. Instead they think they are playing it safe by trading boring stocks with no edge. In reality trading stocks that aren't in play and have no edge guarantees. You will lose over the long run to get comfortable with in place stocks. Start in demo and then move to one share or even a fractional share while your ego won't thank you. Your career prospects will. It's so important to mathematically recognize that it's better to trade a stock with the best expected value for extremely small size. If it's volatile or high priced than a garbage stock with negative expected value. Every single trader needs to have a max daily loss limit. It is non negotiable ideally. The more strongly you can hard code this into your system, the better see if your broker can program it into the software for you. If not many traders have created their own scripts to program their daily loss limit in and make sure they are unable to circumvent it any time invested in this area is probably time well spent because it protects. You from yourself. We often don't realize how important this is until it's too late. And trust me, most of us have been there and learned the hard way along those same lines. Often traders will want to decide a max amount of each day's loss limit that they might be willing to lose in a certain ticker or even per trade. Especially in the early stages. It doesn't help your learning curve. If you lose your daily loss limit in one trade. Reps are so so so important early on far more important than the P and L. It isn't a bad idea to leave yourself room for at least ten trades each day. Should they show up in the beginning stages, there is nothing wrong with risking as little as five percent to ten percent of your daily loss limit in a trade as you get more experienced, this step becomes less important for advanced or elite traders. Often they use a far wider range of. Risk depending on the quality of the trade. In conclusion mastering risk management is essential for traders looking to achieve long-term success in the financial markets by understanding the principles of risk assessment, implementing risk control strategies and staying disciplined. Traders can help ensure unforeseen blow ups, don't cut short their learning journey. Remember, while risk can never be eliminated entirely, it can be managed intelligently to optimize performance and and safeguard your capital. As discussed in the Risk Management overview. Having loss limits is a non negotiable part of risk management. If any trader thinks otherwise they just haven't been hit in the face yet. I do not know a single elite trader that does not have this critical safeguard as part of their trading. But I know there is a graveyard full of countless traders that blew up thinking they didn't need them. Implementing loss limits is not just a safety measure. It's a crucial component of a successful trading strategy. In this video we'll explore why loss limits are essential and how setting daily, will, weekly and monthly caps can safeguard both capital and mental health, ultimately leading to more disciplined and profitable trading. Everything in trading is about expected value and asymmetry. You can have dozens of one hundred percent winners, but if you ever lose one hundred percent, it's game over. On the lost side of the P and L curve. There are unacceptable boundaries that don't exist on the gains side of the curve. At its essence, risk management serves to lop off the unacceptable outcomes on the left side of the curve. There will be times when you're on tilt. There will be times when you're misreading a trade. And there will be times that crazy multi-sigma events occur that you. Didn't even imagine were possible. Think back to some of the crazy moves we saw during Covid. The only way to protect ourselves from the unknown is by having preset safeguards where we will lock it down and take the loss no matter what. By setting predefined points where you'll accept a loss, you prevent a single trade or a single bad day from jeopardizing your entire trading account. The other benefit of proper risk management is that so much of what makes the learning curve hard is the negative feedback loops that can occur. I've seen it time and time again where a newer trader takes an outsized loss, and it shatters their confidence and snowballs in a way that then ruins their process. They're not as motivated or as hungry and they lose faith in their ability to succeed. One of the most important reasons why I spent so much time at the beginning of this course focusing on the process is because the process helps us build positive feedback loops. We stack up small wins, string together positive days and these all motivate us and energize us to keep pushing. Experienced traders have been through the wringer and know how to fall down and get back up again. But as a newer trader you are in a far more fragile state. You need to protect your mental and emotional capital at all costs. Part of doing so is recognizing that making twenty percent does not. Have the same psychological effect as how bad a twenty percent drawdown affects most. Traders. Finally the other big reason for these guardrails is is that hitting your loss limits can signal a need for strategy adjustments. These limits provide a cap on how much damage you can do before you review and reassess trading decisions, helping traders refine their methods and avoid repeat mistakes as market action changes. It's not just about limiting losses, but also about enhancing learning and growth through continuous feedback. Anytime you ever hit a loss limit, you want to be doing a thorough review of your trading, to not just identify what mistakes were made, but to propose and implement solutions to make sure you don't make those mistakes again. Often I get asked what one should risk on a given day or what percent of an account should one risk in a trade. You need to recognize that if there was some objective answer, everyone would already know it. You could just ask ChatGPT and it would spit out two point, four, four percent repeating. Of course, the reason that doesn't exist is because it needs to be specific to you and your situation. Why? And what does that mean? There are some traders that have super consistent low variance strategies. Those traders can have a higher loss limit, because statistically strings of bad luck are less likely to happen. Traders with high variance or low win rate strategies need smaller loss limits. Another factor to consider is your own psychology. As I'll touch on more in a separate video, you never ever want to risk an amount that'll negatively impact your psychology and hurt your positive momentum feedback loop. So if losing dollar five hundred means you're going to be demotivated and psychologically shaken it's way too much. The other factor is your own risk tolerances. There are some traders trading small accounts and if they lose fifty percent of it, it will have zero impact on their lifestyle or long term Runway. Other traders, if they lose ten percent of their account, it'll negatively impact how long they can stay in the game. You always, always, always want to give yourself the longest Runway possible to succeed at this job and often it takes way longer than you think. All of these reasons are a long winded way of saying. Start conservative. You can always gradually increase when the data says to to the newbies out there. Remember, if you don't yet have proven edge in positive expectancy, you do not need to be risking real money or any meaningful capital. It is totally preferable to be in demo or trading one share. If you are starting from the beginning, now let's get into what these various types of loss limits look. Daily loss limits. A daily loss limit is the maximum amount you're willing to lose in a single day setting. This limit helps prevent spiraling from the compulsion to trade back to break even a common pitfall that often leads to greater losses. Daily limits compel traders to step back, regroup and approach the market anew with a clear head the next day. Single trade loss limits. Especially if you are new, you never want to hit your daily loss limit in a single trade. Doing so prevents you from getting reps in and burns through capital way too fast in the early stages. Trading is all about reps. I recommend that on any single trade you risk five percent or even less of your daily loss limit. If you are new, as you get more experienced, it becomes more acceptable for one to risk a large percentage of their daily loss limit in a single trade. Weekly loss limits. Weekly loss limits serve as a checkpoint for evaluating your weekly performance by assessing losses over a week. Traders can identify patterns that aren't immediately apparent on a daily basis. This broader perspective enables more strategic adjustments and helps avoid the pitfalls of a bad trading week turning worse. So so often traders won't do proper weekly reviews and and it'll take them a whole month to recognize the mistake they're making during their monthly review. But the damage done is greater than it need to be had they spotted the bad habit earlier. The true benefit of a weekly loss limit is its ability to help you adapt to market changes faster and with less tuition paid. Monthly loss limits Monthly loss limits are about the big picture, providing a macro view of a trader's performance. They allow traders to evaluate the effectiveness of their strategy over a longer period, accounting for the natural ebb and flow of market conditions. This level of analysis IS Crucial for Long-Term Sustainability in Trading. Careers. This broader safeguard also can help signal when it's time to take a mental reset or some time off to reflect in conclusion. Loss limits are not just optional safety features. They are essential tools for any trader looking to succeed in the unpredictable world of markets. The goal is not just to maximize wins, but to also minimize losses, thereby ensuring that you remain in the game long enough to capitalize on the best opportunities. This topic is for intermediate and advanced traders only. Sorry to exclude all the newbies out there. Dynamic loss limits represent a more sophisticated approach to risk management, unlike static loss limits which remain constant regardless of circumstances and market environment. Dynamic loss limits adjust based on a trader's mental readiness and the prevailing market conditions. Probably the first four to five years of my career I had a set daily loss limit while it grew over time as I progressed, it largely didn't deviate day to day. However all the years that came after I used a dynamic loss limit that I determined pre-marketing each day as part of my daily report card temp check in this video. We will explore how and why to do this and emphasize the most important part that these adjustments are predetermined and not made impulsively or while until biased. Dynamic loss limits provide a flexible framework that adjusts your allowed risk based on specific criteria, such as market volatility, personal performance trends and psychological readiness. This approach helps traders maximize their efficiency by pushing their risk when their mental state aligns with the market's opportunity set and reducing it. When it doesn't. This will shock most people to hear, but even as an eight figure trader on a normal. Day. My loss limit that I was OK losing was often defaulted to twenty thousand dollars, that's it. And if I was tired or hungover, that limit might even be as low as five thousand dollars or zero dollars. In other words, a research and development day to review my trading or develop new strategies. Here are the different variables I would consider when dynamically adjusting my risk limits. The first one is mental readiness. Mental readiness refers to a traitor's psychological and emotional state. As you all know from my daily report card, my sleep score was an essential input in how much I would risk each day. Traders should assess factors like sleep, stress levels, focus and overall well being to decide on their loss limits for the day. For example, if a trader is well rested, focused and in a good mental state, they might increase their loss limit to capitalize on their sharper decision making skills. Number two is opportunity set. Opportunity set refers to the quality and quantity of trading opportunities available, often influenced by market conditions on days. When the market is particularly volatile and presenting clear opportunities, a trader might expand their loss limits to take advantage of the favorable hands being dealt conversely on slower, quieter days. Why the hell would you want to risk the same amount As an active opportunistic day that's like betting the same amount in poker regardless of what pocket cards you were dealt. Performance feedback. Incorporating performance feedback allows traders to adjust their loss limits based on recent trading results. For instance, if a trader is on a winning streak, leveraging a portion of the profits to increase one's loss limit can be a smart strategic movement as long as the opportunity set is still lucrative. On the other end. If one's performance has been poor, reducing risk by tightening the loss limits can help preserve capital during times of struggle. The key here that you need to be careful of is, most people press on the jets following a win streak. Even as the opportunity set often slows down. You need to be so careful of that and make sure you're staying objective when you're rather than adopting a mindset of playing with house money, there is no such thing as house money that is your money. If the opportunity set is slowing down, you need to pull back as well so with that covered here are the key principles for implementing dynamic loss limits. First you want predefined rules. The cornerstone of effective dynamic loss limits is setting these adjustments in advance. Decisions made during trading can be clouded by emotions and biases by establishing clear criteria for when and how to adjust loss limits before trading. Begins. Traders can ensure that their decisions are objective and conducive to long term success. As mentioned, I would always set my risk limit pre market after doing my temp. Check two regular reviews. Dynamic loss limits should be reviewed regularly, ideally as part of a daily or weekly routine. This review process should examine the effectiveness and the limits and the criteria used to set them, ensuring they remain as effective as possible. Three Consistency in application consistency is crucial even with dynamic limits. Traders should apply their predefined adjustments consistently and and avoid the temptation to deviate from their rules on a whim situations like this are where having a risk manager or accountability buddy can be. Critical. This is another added value of working as part of a trading pod, like we discussed earlier in this course. In conclusion, Dynamic loss limits are a powerful tool for intermediate and advanced traders, who are ready to tailor their risk management strategies to better. Fit their mental state and the market's conditions by setting these limits in advance and sticking to a disciplined review process. Traders can enhance their ability to capitalize on opportunities while protecting themselves from unnecessary losses. Dynamic loss limits help you maximize the biggest opportunities when you are trading at your best and minimize the damage done when markets are slower or you are trading at your worst. Everyone always wants me to tell them how much they should be risking. They want to know how much to risk in their best setups, how much to risk on a normal day, how much to risk when on a hot streak and everything in between. It shouldn't be a surprise that inevitably I can't answer those questions because they're all personal and dependent on your situation and psyche. However, what I did come up with is a very good framework for how you should go about coming up with the maximum amount you should ever risk. I came upon this way of thinking during my advisory work at SMB Capital. I was speaking with a young trader who was beating himself up for not risking more in his best trades. Yet given his relative inexperience I didn't want to see him ruin his forward momentum. Should a few of these opportunities not work out in a row when he came to me for answers? We started to work through what loss amounts would rattle him and start to shake his psychology and motivation. The maximum amount you should ever risk on a trade, is less than whatever amount will negatively affect your psychology. Why is that the metric? Because your mindset is a powerful tool in trading. If a loss shakes your confidence or motivation, not only can it impair your subsequent trading decisions, but it can disrupt the positive feedback loop of progress that truly determines how quickly you grow and develop as a trader. Often traders will kick themselves for not risking more when the trades work out, but they don't play out what would happen if they risked more and the trade didn't pan out after an outsized loss too many traders fall into mental quicksand and let their drawdown cloud their trading judgment. Next thing, you know, the traders are demotivated, they're gun shy and their growth as a trader is impaired. A little extra p and L on the upside is never worth slowing your growth. If the trade doesn't work out, what I do now is, I sit down with traders and I help them come up with some guardrails. Based on that framework, I go through their trading history and I ask them how previous drawdowns affected them psychologically. I ask them how it would feel if they drew down a certain amount on the month or gave back a certain percentage of their year. It is totally OK to lose money and to be in a drawdown. But we want to make sure we are intentional with what size we allow that drawdown to be. Therefore my challenge to you is to engage in that introspection. Ask yourself what size loss would make me question my abilities. How much could I lose without feeling discouraged or demotivated? Given that what amount is prudent to lose in a single trade or a single day or a single month? What level of risk does that translate to in my daily trading? Keep in mind. These amounts will change over time. They'll change as you grow, as you become more resilient and also based on the market environment. As a result, you want to constantly be updating these as the year and your journey progresses by understanding your psychological thresholds. You can set risk parameters that protect your motivation and foster long term success. Best of all. Once you've put in the work to come up with these amounts, then you're no longer allowed to beat yourself up for not risking enough. And if you risked the previously determined amount, tell your psyche you're welcome. Because over the course of your career it is going to thank you for this.

