Along with price and time.

Volume is another essential variable to assess in your trading.

Forget any of those fancy indicators.

If I could have only one other field of data, Volume is the most important by far.

Somehow, even after over a decade plus trading, my views have only increased on how important it is to properly factor in volume.

Having looked through hundreds of thousands of charts.

It is my belief that the biggest trends are preceded by huge exchanges of volume.

This is both true for breaking news, continuation plays and capitulations.

I really want you all to think of volume.

As the psychology of the holders is most of the volume out of the money.

Are they in the money have we had a huge exchanging of shares.

If so, that represents a new cost basis for the average holder.

Additionally, more volume means more interest, it means more participants are actively exchanging shares and new holders are becoming involved.

This has important implications for just about every type of strategy.

Let's start with breaking news.

The biggest and best headlines generally attract enormous amounts of volume, and and often the stock can do huge percentages of its average daily volume within minutes the more volume the stock does, and the quicker big volume comes in the more likely the catalyst is the real deal that many investors are waiting to factor into the price.

Oftentimes, that volume then being sustained, hints to the move being continued over the rest of the day or week or sometimes even months for continuation plays.

One of the primary roles of volume in technical analysis is to confirm price movements when prices break out or break down while accompanied by high volume.

It suggests strong conviction among market participants.

This confirmation adds credibility to the price action, indicating a higher probability of the trend continuing in the same direction.

Conversely, when prices move on low volume, it may signal a lack of enthusiasm from traders casting doubt on the sustainability of the trend.

I think it is also true that the more volume that occurs on a breakout, the more significant that level is if a breakout occurs and no meaningful volume goes off then it is signaling that participants don't care about that price level being breached.

But when huge volume goes off, that is a sign there is major participant interest in what is about to occur.

Finally, I don't think there is a more important indicator in trend reversals than volume capitulations in an uptrend.

For example a sudden surge in volume accompanied by a sharp price decline, could indicate a shift in sentiment from bullish to bearish.

This phenomenon known as a volume climax often precedes significant market reversals.

Similarly in a downtrend, a surge in volume during price declines, followed by a sudden uptick in price, can signal a possible reversal to the upside.

The best capitulations are accompanied by extreme levels of volume.

And, and it is my belief that this shift in holder cost basis combined with the vacuum of liquidity that ensues after is often what results in these trends exhausting.

In further videos, we will dive deeper into each of these categories, exploring why and how volume analysis is integral to our trading decisions for now.

Don't underestimate the importance of volume and make sure you are factoring this variable into your setups.

