Okay, hello, it's me again. Okay, so let's look at Like basically one of the problems, continuous problem I see in trading is that people are thinking in terms of software scans, in terms of tactics, in terms of entries, in terms of exit, but that is not going to get you anywhere close to making profitable, if you want to get become profitable in here clearly a strategy. What is a strategy? Strategy is a clear direction for your trading, right? And it means strategy is for me, it's a very clear strategy. All my trading is based on a strategy of focusing on. Or trading for magnitude and not duration. Every single thing which I focus on is strategy is magnitude, not duration, right? And basically if you decide your strategy is going to be duration, it has a fundamentally different connotation, or it is going to lead you to a different kind of a market structure to look at different kind of a process, different kind of stops, different kind of entries, different kind of stock selection, I straight for magnitude, that is the basic strategy, right? That strategy is fundamental to everything selecting that particular thing basically now, once you select a magnitude, there is a second part of the strategy and that second part of the strategy is very, very important. And that second part of the strategy is basically what it is doing is. It is looking for two types of magnitude moves. Now. This is also part of the strategy, right? And basically, and there is a very strategy good strategic reason for doing this as a combination, rather than just focusing on home runs, just focusing on singles. And the strategic reason is that the singles allow you to finance the home runs, if a lot of your time people are saying, oh, I don't want to like, can I do these smaller trades? I just want to do home runs, right? And that's like almost invariably most of the people who approach me initially in the beginning they are looking for home runs, or the large number of crowd is like looking for home runs. Now if you do just home runs as a strategy, is there an implication if you just focus on home runs as a strategy and you have to understand that, right? Because if you run only focus on home runs as a strategy. There are certain problems which you are going to have, and what is that problem which you are going to have? You're going to have large drawdowns and you don't have a control in terms of. Because home runs are not frequent, they are going to be like infrequent, right? So a combination. This is a strategy, right? And as a result of this thinking of magnitude and not duration. And for those of you don't understand, there are two types of moves in the market. One is a magnitude work and one is a duration movement. And what is the magnitude move? Like if you look at say this year, right? This stock made a magnitude move z, right? And where it made a move of like say three thousand percent that's the magnitude move. But if you look at, people study like in essay three years, which stock has made the biggest move? If you look at it, right? You're going to find like these are all magnitude moves, kind of stocks, app and all. Now if you are trading for a duration where you want to like in a look at stocks which are making a duration move, you look at something like yearly persistency. And if you look at yearly persistency, you'll find that this particular stock RBC bearing is up ten years in a row, that's the kind of duration move which you want to find, right? So ten years in a row the stock is up because each one of these year is positive, but is it really making a duration moves? It is like an up five percent this year. It was up like in a thirty six percent. It was up like in a three percent. But that is the kind of move which you want to find. If you are going to be duration trader. If I want to be a duration trader, I would select all stocks which show extremely high amount of duration persistency, right? As against looking at like is the difference between velocity or like any difference between running races of one hundred meters, two hundred, five hundred meters versus running manner marathons. So I am focused on magnitude, not duration. As a result of this right. The market structure which i am looking for here is something called momentum burst. Because momentum burst moves are the kind of moves which have the magnitude to go up eight to twenty percent or eight to forty percent in three to five days. Because because you are playing for magnitude. For you, it is very important that you are always in a velocity moves now. If you want to and even for home runs. What am i looking for? I am looking for stocks which are like the kind of stocks which will make a fifty percent plus move, But fifty percent in how many tire days? If you study eps, how many times, how many months or how many days do they require to make fifty percent plus moves? Most of them will be less than two months, right? Here him's made a big move. What is the duration of this move? Seventeen bars, right? And basically our SMCI, which was one of the very good EP here. In this particular time period, it made this move of two hundred eighteen percent and how many days did it make two months less than one point one month, right? And basically it made this. If you kept on holding this for a duration, What would have happened if you kept on holding it for a duration move? You'd be like in a down six percent. So these are not duration moves and this is very important to understand. It's like in a otherwise like in a what is happening. Is One day you are focusing on magnitude moves. Next day Somebody says, oh no, you should be looking at weekly chart, Then you go into weekly chart, Then somebody says no, no, you should be like and you're not selling a stock unless it goes below two hundred day moving average and then. You start doing that, because you never clear about what is your strategy? If your strategy is to sell to rich, Is there an implication as to where your store should be located? What kind of people you recruit for that particular business versus like any. If your strategy is to serve poor people. Who are and middle class, lower income people, Like in a lower income middle class, right? Not your lower middle class, right? Are you going to put people if you're a seven eleven and you dress up all your people in suits and ties. And offer like any. Basically. Oh, you come to Sir, here is your coffee and you offer your coffee on a silver train a si cutlery. How long are you? Is your business going to last similarly? If you have a store which is like in a catering to rich people and you. Are giving them like any, You have like any the people from like any the poorest people. People whose teeth are falling apart. As your salespeople, you recruit them and they say some billionaire comes in and he says yes, hello, I'm here like on myth and all of. This. How long is your business going to have last right? Same way you have to be thinking about this. This is the starting point. If you are not clear. If you cannot articulate what is your strategy, right? I had a long meeting in last couple of days, right? On Friday I had a meeting Saturday I had a meeting with couple of people and I'm like they are just like in a no matter how many times I told. Them, right? They are just what they are doing is. They're just flirting from one thing to another without having a strategy. This strategy has to be nailed, right? If your strategy is very clearly, some people come and say look I want cash flow or I. Want to make money every week, every month, right? If that is your strategy, then what your strategy clearly dictates. If your strategy, if your strategy says, or that I need to make money, all need to make money every month. Is there an implication for that in terms of what kind of structure which you can trade and what kind of setup you are going to be trading? So once you have this nailed is when you start thinking about what kind of a structure. I need to trade Now that this is my strategy, I need to focus on magnitude moves so I. Need to focus on momentum, right? I need to focus on stocks. And this is why when you are focusing on stocks with EP, why are you not focusing on stocks with EP which have a five percent sales growth? Why are you not focusing on things like this thing? Like somebody kept arguing with me Friday, I had a meeting, zoom meeting, which he had requested and he said look and put like to me Walmart is an EP and why are you not saying that Walmart is a nippy and so this guy has a fundamental problem in understanding that Walmart five percent sales growth or three percent sales growth is like any not something which is ever going to lead to an explosive move, right? And a U trade EP for what exactly right? But like that clarity? Why is that clarity not there? Because they don't have a strategy, right? They put together some information from Twitter, some information from some sources and they are just like in a making a hash of it because. They're not thinking through a strategy Walmart here, right? And basically you see Walmart five percent sales growth is five percent sales growth bad? No, it is not bad, but is it what is going to lead this stock to make fifty percent move in a quarter or less? It cannot be an EP, right? And there is no way so that understanding. Why these people don't have or why they are not thinking like that is because they have no strategy, right? Once you have a strategy, then what you are going to do is, why are you going to focus on thirty nine percent plus sales growth kind of a stock or fifty percent plus sales growth kind of a stock, Because those are the stocks which when they move, they can move fifty percent plus in couple. Of weeks, right? And these are all the things then once you have this in place strategy and structure. Most important thing these two things is when you can think about process because a lot of people are saying, oh, I am so diligent every day I am doing I am so disciplined. I am like doing, yeah, but you are doing discipline. But that discipline without a strategy and structure is just not going to lead you anywhere, right? There are a couple of people who keeps emailing me every week. Or like in a sometimes three times in a day, saying I have spent seven thousand hours, ten thousand hours and I am so disciplined, but why am I not making money? Yeah, you are disciplined, but you don't have a strategy, right? You don't have a strategy. So process is only thing which you need to think about Once you have strategy, process tools only becomes important once you have strategy. So ask yourself this question before the end of this year, Because then if this year is lost for you at least next year will be or like ask this question for next three days, so that like in a December at least you can make money. What is my strategy? And write down your strategy. And then as a result of that strategy, if your strategy is to make is to like in a hold stocks for longer term, right? Or play for duration, is this going to be completely different after that everything below this is going to be different. Yes, right? You're not going to be looking for these kind of stocks which go through thirty nine percent plus. So you are looking for stocks which have a consistent, persistent sales growth, earnings growth. You will focus on stocks like Autozone, right? You'll focus on stocks like this? Then if your idea is to like any to trade things like this, you'll focus on stocks like this, or you'll focus on stocks like. What is the thing? Syntas? Let's look at Syntas. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen years of like an air SHW, right? So just stock selection is going to be significantly different. If you are going do a duration kind of a thing and this. Understanding, I don't expect people to have when they start trading, but if you have been in trading for two, three years at some stage, these are the kind of questions which you need to answer and start narrowing your focus, define your strategy. I define my strategy as to focus on magnitude moves and not duration moves, right? I define my strategy as a result of this I decided like any I'm going to do a combination of home runs and singles and what is the reason why? What like to trade magnitude moves with lower drawdown. If that is your strategy, then you need to have combination of singles and homeless. And then once you have all these is when you start thinking about process and That's when you start thinking about whether to have a deep view or have a shallow view software or to have a no view software or to use the AI or to use whatever thing or or to do ORB or to do delayed reaction EP or things like. That, right? If you're starting from execution and no strategy, it is never going to work. And this is a common problem And this is a Again I, also it's also beginner traders, probably you can't blame them also, right? And in the beginning it's like so overwhelming and everybody like and all things are like in a all over the place, right? But this is your starting point. What is your strategy? And all strategy, execution, structure, process exist in an environment, right? The environment a strategy, which works in a particular period environment is not going to work if the environment changes, right? And if the environment has changed, then it's like not going to work, right? And basically, so this is the totality of thinking which is required in order to become consistently and persistently profitable Where you start with the strategy define the strategy define what are your non negotiable, right? My non negotiable is I am going to focus on magnitude and my non negotiable is I don't want hydraulics, right? Those are the non negotiable. As a result of this I created a structure which will make sure that I Focus on Magnitude Moves and Then. The process process and execution is where you can keep making changes, right? Process execution. You can keep making changes, but do you want to keep changing strategy and do you want to keep changing structure? This should be lifelong and the structure should also be something which is like in a permanent structure, right? This process is tactics, execution is tactic. This you can change, this you can experiment with, but this is not experimentation and find for once for all a strategy and stick to that strategy for four hundred one k. I created a strategy, lemonade strategy, right? And I stuck to that strategy as long as I had a four hundred one k. That was a strategy, right? Buying extreme weakness is the strategy in four hundred one k, right? So that's why Like you're only doing T two and zero eight and second part of that strategy is what first is buying weakness, extreme weakness and the second part is to be looking at the funds with the highest momentum, right? So it's a combination of buying the highest momentum funds at extreme. Weakness and that's a strategy. And that's why it can last for a longer period of time, so What is your strategy? And as a result of that what structure you want to trade and freeze that? This is very important. I don't think any. This will be a very popular thinking, but I must put out this thing for people who are like traders who really want to last long and all what is your strategy, right? Like Citadel has a strategy, right? And their strategy is very clear, high frequency. That is their strategy, right? Warren Buffett had a strategy. And what was Warren Buffett's strategy? To buy good businesses? Buy good businesses when they are at bargain level. You can define your strategy. You can define your strategy as like in a to buy growth stocks at the beginning of their growth phase. That will be a strategy, right? But just like in a saying deep view has a fifty percent off or tradings view or some software has eighty percent off. So I'm going to try it out. Is not strategy. That's like you are just floating around with things, right? There is no strategy there. So what is your strategy? And are you sticking to the structure? Is your structure derived from the strategy? And one strategy and structure are in plus process you set up. For achieving your strategy. Any questions. Until you fix this problem, you are going to be not having success in this business. Till you fix this problem of strategy and structure, you're not going to be very successful in this business, because this is non negotiable, right? This is permanent, or this is semi permanent And then everything else is tactics or like in its process or tactics. And ninety percent of the focus people are putting or even ninety five percent or ninety eight percent they are putting on execution and process without having any strategy and structure. It's keep out of the structure because singles are required to finance the home runs, right? And as a result of this thinking, also when I started looking at this as a strategically and I said like you know what is the problem with EP? As a strategy? That EP is good, but it gives you infrequent trades. So in order to solve the strategic problem of EP being infrequent, I found a strategic solution to create EP nine million and sugar bbs right now. This is from a strategy of finding multiple home runs, right? And this is something which you have to think through. Even once you decide to like there is nothing wrong with trying. For like your strategy can be to just focus on home runs, right? And if you focus on home runs, then you'll have to have the structure which finds home runs, right? And if you are saying that you aim for home runs and every time. You lose, because then structurally what you built is not finding the home runs, there is a problem, right? And this is a framework. Once you understand this framework not only understand, but want to internalize and once you start using it in your own trading, you will see that you are not going to be revisiting issues again and again, right? Your lot of your energy is not going to be wasted. Because if you decide your strategy is all weather trading, right? And if your strategy is to have all weather trading, then as a result of your strategy, it means that you need to have a setup on the long side, you need to have a setup on the short side, you need to have a Setup on choppy period. You need to have a setup, which is day trading setup? You need to have a setup, who is a swing trading setup, right? Because your strategy you defined as Because your strategy is to have do all weather trading. And that's a strategy, right? Versus market timing. Market timing is a strategy, OR for Foreign G Just Doing Passive. Investment is a strategy, right? Just doing passive investment. Putting your money in Vanguard. Total market fund indexing is indexing a strategy. Yes, right? That was a strategy which was popularized by Vanguard, right? And that's a strategy. And that's why Vanguard is still around for more than thirty years or forty years. Because they have a strategy, right? If you don't have a strategy like Google has a strategy. And what is Google strategy? Google strategy is to grieve away free search, right? And make money using ad pricing so everything they do stems from that. They give away Gmail free, right? But how do they make money bad teizing? They give away YouTube free. How do they make money by running advertisements on YouTube, right? They give you away Google Doc free. How do they make money on Google Docs? And all same way, right? So their strategy is to give away free content and then make money through advertising. That's their strategy. Every business which is successful has a strategy, right? Three M has a very good strategy, right? And a three M has like in a continuously. They focus on these small niches, but like they have a strategy and they keep expanding that strategy. So what is your strategy? And what is the structure which you want to do as a result of this? And then, if you think through this, right? And you thought through this, I'm going to focus on magnitude. I'm going to focus on Combination of Home Runs and Singles. For the reason that I don't want to now supposing Tomorrow somebody comes in and he starts telling you look and you're a fool. You are. You should not be focusing on singles, you should be only focusing on home runs and all are. You going to change your mind? No, right? And because you know that this is something which you thought through. And this is your strategy, right? Tomorrow somebody comes and starts telling seven eleven kilukane. You should recruit all the only fans girl send like any, make them like any they can, but like they are not going to make money, right? And this is the thing. Basically. If your strategy is very clearly, you look at, you want to do it like by automation. Automation is a strategy, right? If automation is your strategy, then you still need to find structure. Which is going to help you to trade automated way? But the problem is right. Problem is that ninety percent of the effort people are putting in even here is on execution without having a strategy. Yeah, you can have two strategies, right? You can have two strategies and you can run two strategies. Like for me Lemonade strategy was a different strategy from magnitude strategy, right? Lemonade is a completely different strategy for trading four hundred k account. When I had four hundred one k that was a separate from this magnitude strategy, right? It had nothing to in common with this magnitude strategy, right? So you can have. Strategy, then structure, then process and then execution. The last least important part of your whole trading is some software, which is giving you like sixty percent off on a Black Friday or some software which is saying like fifty percent off or eighty percent off or some influencer. And Twitter is giving away free software. And you're just like in a going for the free. Software. You have no strategy. And if you have a strategy and if your strategy is so solid that it makes money that you don't mind paying a software thirty dollars a month. You'd rather pay a software thirty dollars a month rather than getting a free software, right? But if somebody is giving away strategy on. X, how many people will be interested on it versus somebody is giving away. Eighty percent off on some software. How many people are interested in it? Tell me, That's the thing, right? And that is what you need to think, think and write down your strategy. What is my strategy, right? And basically? And that once you write down like any mind is clear magnitude and structurally like in a combination of home runs, trade magnitude moves for singles as well as home runs with the least amount of drawdowns. And that's why as part of my strategy, magnitude duration and market timing is part of that, right? Why is market timing part of that is what. Any questions be very clear about your strategy. Your strategy will be like what is going to drive your next ten years, fifteen years effort? That is not something which you are going to change every single day, every single week, every month. Once you find a strategy, you found something, so focus on strategy finding say your strategy might be to like in a fine growth stocks early, it's finding growth stock early strategy, Yes, right? Or five find neglected stocks. When catalyst shows up, that's a strategy, right? Then you'll all be like in a looking at like and then you have a focused effort. Otherwise Seven Eleven has a very good strategy, right? And they're highly successful. How many shops are like all over the world? Seven Eleven is there. You go in Europe, you go in Japan, you go anywhere. Seven Eleven why they have strategy, right? And that's why they are highly successful. Similarly the. Does Hermes has a strategy? And that's why they are most successful, right? They are very successful because they have like in a strategy everywhere you go, you go in some third world country. Also you will find the richest person will be wearing a Hermes like any things and all so sell to rich people, that's their strategy, right? While Seven Eleven strategy is to sell to poor people or sell to lower, middle class and middle class, right? So that's the thing basically does Costco have a strategy? And that's why Costco is so successful, right? So if all of these people, businesses which have this thing they have a strategy, So how what do you think? How do you think you are going to be successful? If you don't have a strategy which you are articulated and if you can spend just like in a one weekend thinking about this and fine tuning your strategic thinking and eliminating strategic choices, that is going to pay you up for next ten to twenty years. And if you don't do this work, you will keep swimming in this execution process, execution process, execution process loop. So those of you who don't want to be stuck here and just waiting water start here, define your strategy and not everybody needs to trade same way, right? Not everybody needs to trade magnitude and duration or trade only you might have a well like you might say my strategy is to focus on turnaround stocks, right? That's a strategy, right? OK, when you mentioned about strategy making money every month using magnitude, my magnitude, my strategy doesn't define that to make money every month, right? And my strategy doesn't define that, right? That's a different strategy. All weather trading as a strategy. If you decide my strategy says magnitude and not duration, right? Market timing doesn't mean that I want to make money every month, right? And basically as against that. If I decide my strategies to make all weather trading, then if I want to do all weather trading, I will do what Citadel or somebody else does, right? So that's why I focus on finding time periods when magnitude moves. Dominate and focus on magnitude moves, right? And as a result of this strategy every weekend, every day, when I do any R and D or when I want to do some research or develop new things, what do I develop? I develop things within this strategic framework, right? EP nine million or anything which I develop or singles within this framework, I don't try go and like any somebody tells me, oh, you should like any do scalping or you should. Focus on this. I don't go and do that, right? Because this is the direction for whatever. Whether you like it or not and not everybody is going to agree with this strategy, right? That's why there are different businesses, so, but I focus my attention on this strategy, right? And I have a strategy for trading and I have a strategy for life, right? And my strategy for life. Also I shared with you people many times, right? And as a result, everything which I do flows from that strategy, which I defined many, many years ago, right? So strategic focus extremely important And which is what how many people are thinking, like this tell me in trading currently? And you know most of the people are trading, right? Very few, right? Less than five percent of the trader or less than two percent of the traders are doing this, right? Eighty percent, ninety percent You say VWAP with. I have this slurpee with VWAP. They'll all be running for a slurpee with VWAP, right? And you say look and I got this this thing indicator, which is like in a basically draws three lines at ninety degrees, right? And they will all be like, okay, I want this anchored thing with, like any three lines, right? And basically so that's what the whole world is about right? Recurrently. And that's exactly what you don't want to focus on. OK I will see you people tomorrow morning. But like this is very important. This is the single most important session probably which I think defining your strategy and structure. And if you can do this and if you can create a document, first attempt may not be right. But if you have this then you have something otherwise you're just wasting your time, right?

