Foreign I know a lot of you are eager to jump right into the technical content, but hear me out first.

I truly believe that meta learning, or the science of how to learn more effectively is what saved my career when I was struggling.

When I saw how little progress I was making my first year, I took a mental time out and started to ask myself some really important questions.

Most notable were what are the easiest ways to make money?

What are the fastest and most effective ways to study those opportunities?

And how do I build a daily process that incorporates all of those actions?

That strategic decision really changed my destiny.

I believe my continued optimization of those questions is what propelled me to become the number one trader at Trillium.

It wasn't that my trading strategies were so different or so much better than anyone else's.

It was that my process for improving was so refined that I could improve and evolve at a faster rate.

As it gets emphasized in my favorite book, Atomic Habits by James Clear, your starting point doesn't matter as much as how quickly you are improving and how far of a Runway you have.

The way to think about it is this.

Your skill at a craft is a mix between how many hours you put in and how effective those hours are.

Take this visual the first line here is someone that improves at a normal marginal rate like most people do.

Imagine hitting pause for a few months to figure out the most effective way to improve and perfect your learning process as a result.

Say you improve at even a smidge faster rate over the course of your career.

The key here is that improvement compounds.

The second line is someone who takes that pause and compounds their learning at a faster rate over the course of a trading career.

That difference can be whether you make it at this job or just how high you soar.

That is why I believe I was as successful as I was.

So I know you want to get into the meat of this course, but trust me, don't underestimate the importance of optimizing the effectiveness of your daily process.

Whenever I start mentoring a trader, it always starts with the process.

People think I am blowing smoke when I say this, but it's true.

Even when I mentor professional traders, it still starts with improving their process.

By avoiding ineffective learning strategies and focusing on what works, meta learning significantly reduces time wasted on unproductive methods.

Remember, one hour of clear, purpose driven work is better than three hours of going through the motions mindlessly.

You will shorten the learning curve and reach new heights if you put the time into perfecting your learning process.

That is why such a meaningful chunk of the beginning of this course is dedicated to it.

