Momentum burst is the central tendency of stocks.

Moves stocks move in Momentum burst of three to five days and in three to five days stocks make moves of anywhere between eight to forty percent.

And if they are higher price stocks, they can move between fifty to three hundred dollars in just three to five days.

This particular tendency of the stock market you can use to make lot of money in this series of guide videos.

I'm going to show you how to profit from Momentum boost.

So in order to understand a Momentum boost, let's look at some examples of them very quickly and in order to see the examples of them, I will take you to my TC two thousand.

So now if you see on TC two thousand, what you will see is that this stock had a sudden bust up Momentum and in just three to five days the stock made two hundred and seventy eight percent.

This stock had a sudden burst up Momentum and just in three to five days it made a move of one hundred twenty one percent.

Here there was a sudden burst of Momentum and in three to five days it made a twenty two percent move.

You can go to any random stock and look at this same phenomena.

Here there is a sudden Momentum burst and in three to five days.

It's one hundred and four percent move or you.

Can look at like and here in just three to five days the stock made seventeen percent move or like say here three to five days it makes it to twelve percent move or this stock three to five days or three to five days, three to five days and eight to twenty percent kind of a move here app run just now made a move, big move and you can see a bust up Momentum and the stock market sixty percent move like this.

You can study these Momentum burst moves and when you study them, what you're going to find is Momentum burst happens for three to five days and in that three to five days stocks make a move.

Now if you look at the high price stock, say let's look at Autozone, which is a high price stock.

There are also Momentum worst in high price stocks.

So this is a three day momentum worst and in three days the stock made a move up around one hundred dollars.

Or if you look at a stock like booking and you will see that when it had a Momentum burst of three days, it made a move of fifty eight dollars.

Same thing happens on the downside.

It has a Momentum burst to the downside made ninety two dollars more.

And this you can see on any high price stocks also so if you see Tesla when it moves, it moves in three to five days momentum, this is a three days, four days momentum and it made thirty five percent thirty five dollars move or thirteen percent move.

And this is a very common phenomena in the market, which you will see again and again and this you can use to profit from in order to profit from this, you need to have a deeper understanding of this movement burst phenomena.

So in the next part we look at what is the nature of Momentum burst?

What happens on the first day of the Momentum burst and how you can use that understanding to create trading method so that you can profit from this momentum burst.

In this part two of this video on Momentum burst, we'll look at what starts a Momentum burst or what happens at the start of a momentum burst?

What happens at the start of a momentum burst?

Is that there is a range expansion or there is a burst up a momentum or there is a big candle at the start of a move.

Now this particular phenomena where a stock was not really going up, it is trading either sideways or it is going down.

And suddenly you get a burst of momentum or a range expansion or a candle which is big, starts a Momentum burst and that particular thing, the magnitude of that particular day is important because that magnitude should show that there is a real Momentum burst, which has happened in the market and then the stock starts moving in that particular direction.

So let's look at some examples of what is really this range expansion on the first day and try and understand this so that we can see this in real life on stocks for in order to do that.

What I am going to do is, I am going to take you to my telechart and in my telechart thing I'm going to show you start up a range expansion.

So let's go to telechart and when I go to telechart, what you will see is that like say let's take any example of any stocks recent stock, right?

Basically let's take say beyond meat as an example now on beyond meat.

And if you go to this particular day, this was an example of a range expansion.

So we will go to that particular day.

Now if you go on this particular day, you will see that this stock was not really making a big move, it was going down for three four days and suddenly it had seven percent move right?

And then once it had that seven percent move.

What happened was for next three four five days?

The stock kept going up this particular thing led to twenty eight percent move.

This is a range expansion day, or a momentum startup momentum bus day, and as a result of that the stock started going up.

Similarly you can have another example of the same thing on the same stocks.

So here, this is a stock is not making a move, it is going having a minor pullback and then this is a range expansion compared to last three or four day.

This was a big day, this was a day when the stock was up thirteen percent and that.

Started the move.

That started the move on this particular stock for another momentum burst of three days.

And in that three days the stock made a move of ten percent.

Now this is an example of a momentum burst.

Similarly you can look at a momentum burst on any stock and what you are going to find is that at the beginning, whether it is on the long side or short side, you are going to get a large candle.

Whenever you get a large candle that really indicates that there is a momentum burst.

So in this particular example, if you look at this particular day, this is a range expansion, the stock had a big day compared to its all other day.

And then from that range expansion or momentum came in and as a result The stock made one hundred ninety nine percent move.

SECREALLY IF you look at this particular example here, this is very clear example of like in a range expansion, the stock is not going up anywhere for three four days.

Then this is a big range expansion of forty two percent that kicks off a momentum phase and the stocks keeps going up for one, two, three, four, five, six, seven days, and in seven days the stocks makes a move of one hundred two percent.

Or you can see another examples of momentum burst on that particular stock, where again there is a momentum burst, right?

And in that momentum burst again in five days or six days, the stocks makes a move of one hundred two percent.

Now these big bars indicate startup momentum burst, they indicate startup momentum burst.

And you will see that always, whenever you see a stock, this is called as a range expansion, or this is a range expansion, which kicks off a move.

This is a range expansion day where this particular day was bigger than any of these days.

So if you go on that particular day, you're going to see that that was a big day compared to others day, right?

And this was a positive day.

It was the stock was up four percent, four point, six, six percent, and it kept going up.

So that's the range expansion.

And from there you see, the stock kept going up.

Similarly there's a range expansion and the stock made a move.

There was a rhinoshield expansion.

It didn't really make much of a move.

And same thing happens on the downside.

You get a range expansion stocks move in the direction of range expansion.

You get a range Expansion of Big Bar and the Stock.

Moves in the direction of that particular range expansion.

If you see, like say Nvidia here, this is a classic example of a big range expansion to the downside.

When there was a big expansion to the downside, what happened for next three to five days?

The stock go went down sixteen percent.

Nonetheless there was a range expansion to the upside where you had a bar which was bigger than the other bars in the last three four days.

And see here, from that particular range expansion, the stock kept going up for next three to five days.

So range expansion or start up a moment tomorrow.

Momentum burst is what starts a Momentum burst?

Move up three to five days.

So at the beginning of any Momentum burst, what you should be looking at is a large range expansion bar.

If you see a large range expansion bar, the market or that stock is clearly telling you that it is going to go in the direction of that range expansion for for next three to five days.

Not every range expansion is going to have a follow through, but enough number of them in a year have a follow through.

So range expansion is a powerful signal which tells you that the stock is going to either go up or go down, depending on whether the range expansion was positive or the range expansion was negative.

Okay, let's look at how long does a Momentum burst last?

That is very important to know, because accordingly you can design your entries, exits and the profit targets.

So in the case of a momentum burst, typical Momentum burst is going to last for three to five days, three to five days.

Most Momentum burst commonly are going to be three to five days once in a while.

Very rarely you are going to get a Momentum burst, which will be eight ten, twelve fifteen days, but that's an anomaly, that's not a normal move.

So by design.

If you're going to be trading Momentum burst, it is very critical.

If a move is going to last three days, then you need to get it on that move on the first day.

So getting an on first day becomes very critical, because the move itself is three to five days.

Now which kind of a stock will have a longer than three to five days move?

Some stocks are going to have a longer than three to five days moves and those stocks are higher price stocks.

Higher price stocks do not break out with large fours or they are not going to break out with four percent, five percent or six percent move most of the time.

They break out with just like two dollars, three dollars and and when they break out with two dollars or three dollars, their Momentum burst can be eight, ten, twelve days, So you have to understand clearly, lower price stocks are going to move in three to five days, very high price stocks.

Stocks price above one hundred dollars are going to move in momentum burst sometimes of six, seven, eight, nine days.

So can you enter a Momentum burst next day in a high price stocks yes, but in a momentum burst of lower price stocks, especially price below forty dollars, it is going to be three to five days and you can see this again and again and I'm going to show you my TC two thousand and when you see my two c two thousand, you're going to see that the momentum worst moves are going to be again three to five days only and many of them are going to be over by fourth day or fifth day.

So just overstaying this trade doesn't work and not entering on the first day is a cardinal scene in a momentum bust kind of a trading.

Because if you cannot enter them on the first day, this particular kind of a phenomena where you can make eight to ten percent, twenty percent in few days unfortunately is not suitable for you.

So let's look at like my telechart and see how it looks.

So if you see on this particular stock, this is a Momentum burst now, this Momentum burst was just a four days phenomena, it lasted only for four days.

Nonetheless on the short side, this is a momentum burst and it was only five days, right?

And you don't know whether it will continue after that.

Similarly this is a momentum burst and this was just three to four, five days now.

As against that, when you look at the higher price stocks, you will see many times like autozone has a Momentum burst here, but on this Momentum burst and let us go to that particular day to see it much better.

So this is the range expansion this day is bigger than any of the days here right now from this particular day.

But if you see this was just a two percent move and then it kept on going up for one, two, three, four, five, six, seven days, or six days, right?

So these kind of Momentum burst you will see again like there's a momentum burst here, it was three four five, six, seven, eight days.

Those kind of things you're going to see on a higher price stocks, but on a lower price stocks.

It is seldom.

You're going to get momentum burst, which are going to be of that magnitude.

So if you see lower price stocks, there'll be two to three days.

Two to three days.

And if you don't understand, then you're going to overstay a momentum burst.

And if you stay a momentum burst, overstay a momentum bust, you will end up giving up all the profits which happened during a momentum burst.

So three to five days is the golden period for trading a momentum burst on lower price stocks.

On higher price stocks they can go up from six to ten days, sometimes even eleven to twelve days.

What is the magnitude of momentum burst?

Or how much profit can you make on a momentum burst trade?

Now, the momentum burst rate has a certain magnitude and accordingly you should have an expectation on that particular trade.

Now when you look at a momentum burst, what you will see is that they have a magnitude of anywhere between eight to forty percent.

Or if you're looking at higher price stocks, it can be anywhere between ten to three hundred dollars.

The understanding nuances of this is important.

If you are going to be trading stocks which are priced below ten dollars most of the time, the momentum burst on stocks which are trading below ten dollars is going to be between twenty to forty percent.

So in a three days time frame or a five day time frame, the stock after a breakout is going to make twenty to forty percent more.

So if you are trying to like in a target twenty to forty percent kind of a thing, then you need to go into a lower price stock category.

Now, if you are looking at stocks which are priced between ten to forty dollars, kind of a thing you're going to get anywhere between eight to twenty percent, kind of a profit in three to five days.

Now, if you trade higher price stocks, like if you are supposing trading stocks which are trading at one hundred dollars plus, then what is going to happen is you are going to get magnitude of between ten dollars to fifty dollars, the higher the price of the stocks which you get into, like supposing.

If you are trading a three hundred dollars stock, taking ten dollars on a three hundred dollars stock is not really a good trade.

There you are going to get on a three hundred dollars anywhere between thirty to fifty dollars.

On a momentum burst.

And when you get into these very high price, super high price stocks, like five hundred dollars plus a momentum burst on them might be fifty dollars to three hundred dollars in eight to ten days, So this is important.

Lower price, lower the price you're going to get twenty to forty percent, higher the price you're going to get.

Like in dollar terms, not in percentage term that fifty to three hundred dollars on a stock which is priced thousand dollars may not be maybe just three to ten percent or three to eight percent.

So this is important.

And if you try and understand this then, accordingly, you will not be undercutting your own profit potential.

And again, let's look at some of the examples of a very low price stocks and look at some high price stocks to try.

And understand this better.

Like when you look at very high price stocks, right?

Say let's like in a sort by price and look at let's very high price stocks, like say, booking the momentum burst on a booking which is just a three days momentum burst still the stock made a move up around dollar ninety six, here there is a momentum burst.

And from that momentum burst in four days or five days the stock made one hundred eighty dollars move so here in order for you to understand this better.

Let's look at this, right?

So this is a momentum burst, because it's a range expansion now I'm not calculating the return from this particular day where it was itself, the stock was up sixty two, sixty two percent, sixty two dollars.

But here, from assuming that you entered on this day in the next three or four days, the stock made one hundred sixty eight dollars, approximately one hundred sixty eight dollars in three to four days, right?

And this kind of fifty to one hundred kind of swings are very common on the high price stocks.

And that is why some people focus on high price stock, like say, if you see here, recent example of A good momentum burst here, if you see McK, this is a high price stock, it's trades at around three hundred dollars, right?

And this is a range expansion on it, this is a move which is bigger than any of the moves.

And if you see from that range expansion, I think it made around forty dollars move, right?

So here in five to six days, it made twenty seven dollars, not forty dollars, right?

And a twenty seven dollars move.

And this is very common on high price stocks.

You're going to get range expansion where you're going to get ten to forty dollar fifty, kind of a profit while you go on a low price stocks, if you go on a very low price stocks, what you are going to get is you are going to get Momentum burst, which will be like this is a four dollars stock when the stock broke out and this particular thing Momentum burst in three to five days, it made one hundred, fourteen percent more.

This Momentum burst was again one hundred percent, right?

Whenever you go into lower price stocks, expects twenty to forty percent in three to five days twenty to thirty percent most of the time on lower price stocks.

That's the kind of move which you're going to get if they are below ten dollars, kind of a stock.

If they're really lower price stock, you're going to get those kind of moves always, like And if you see here some of the stocks which I made a move in the last couple of weeks and they are lower price stocks, right?

And they will be making Momentum bust moves of seventy percent, forty percent, fifty percent lower price stock, right in eight dollars Momentum burst is thirty percent, right.

Low price stock Momentum burst is twenty seven percent, right twenty to forty percent on lower price stocks, if they are priced like this kind of a thing Momentum burst is seventy percent, this is forty percent in three to five days, OK, very low price you're going to get Momentum burst, which are going to be very very explosive in terms of percentage, so lower price stocks aim for twenty to forty percent.

Your objective should be to try and get twenty to forty percent if it is a very low price stock below ten dollars, like here Momentum burst and in four days it made twenty four percent move.

If you go into a higher price stocks, then start looking at ten dollars to fifty dollars.

And if you're really going into a super high price stock, then they will have between fifty to three hundred dollars swing.

So magnitude of move in three to five days is anywhere from eight to forty percent or between ten to three hundred dollars.

In this particular Momentum burst as a phenomena, Can a Momentum burst start from fifty-two week low and can it.

Make money?

And the answer is yes.

And the answer is yes and the answer is yes.

It's very important that you know that Momentum burst which starts from fifty-two week low can make you.

Lot of money.

So let's look at some of the examples of Momentum burst.

We start from fifty-two week low and make bigger.

Moves than the Momentum burst which starts near fifty two week high and which fail many after.

So Let's go to Telechart again and look at TC two thousand and look at examples of some stocks recently which I made big moves and see what happened to them.

And when you go to TC two thousand and when you.

Look at some of these examples of stocks which made big moves recently, was this near fifty two week high.

Answer is no.

The momentum was started here and from there the stock made one hundred two hundred percent move.

Or if you look at rhythm, this is not a Momentum burst when it started, it started near fifty two week high.

Now if you're stuck in your mind or for whatever reason you believe that only stocks near fifty-two week high or stocks which.

Hold up very well, are the one which you should be trading.

Then what is going to happen is you're going to miss on this kind of Momentum burst.

And again and again you will see that the Momentum burst near low make bigger moves than many Momentum burst near high.

When the move is apparent and people get into that move and those Momentum bursts fail, you will see this particular Momentum burst again.

The stock was near not near fifty two week high.

Here there is a Momentum burst and the stock made thirty one percent move.

So if you want to make money from Momentum burst, be ready to take Momentum burst near lows.

Also the momentum burst near lows work as.

Well or many times better than the Momentum burst which are near high.

Momentum burst can start from any level and it's a three to five days phenomena.

For three to five days phenomena the stock doesn't need to be near fifty two week high.

Or stock doesn't need to have anything else for it to work.

Very important.

Otherwise you are going to be missing out on lot of trades by just getting stuck on only trading stocks which are trading near fifty two week high.

Stocks near fifty two week low as a momentum first work equally well.

A stock near fifty two week high and many cases they work better than stocks near fifty two week high.

Do Momentum burst work on stocks which are trading below two hundred day moving average.

Some people consider two hundred day moving average as a saccharous encline and they don't want to trade stocks below two hundred day moving average now.

If you are one of that person, I have a news for you.

Many good Momentum burst actually happen below two hundred day moving average and they actually make big moves below two hundred day moving average and you can make lot of money by trading Momentum burst which happen below two hundred day moving average and I can.

Show you examples of that, which have happened just in the last couple of days.

So let's go and look at my tele chart.

And if you look at the telechart and look at some of the recent examples of stocks which have made moves.

What you are going to find is that, if you just decided not to go into stocks which had Momentum burst below two hundred day moving average, you're going to miss out on Momentum burst like this.

You're going to miss out on Momentum burst like this.

You're going to miss out on Momentum burst like this or like this or you're going to miss out on Momentum burst like this.

You're going to lose miss out on many many Momentum burst.

Because the important thing for you to understand is that stocks, especially when they are coming out of a correction, they are going to be trading below two hundred day moving average and they might be trading significantly below two hundred day moving average and by the time they reach two hundred day moving average, they might have two or three Momentum bursts and each of those two or three movement could be twenty to thirty percent or even more Move so if you don't want to trade Momentum buys below two hundred day moving average, it's your fault you are going to leave lot of money on the table.

Do stock needs to have good earnings or good sales or some really good PE ratio or price to sales ratio or any good fundamentals for it to work as a Momentum burst.

The answer is again, no you do not need any good fundamental for a stock to make a Momentum burst.

In fact, some of the most profitable trade which you will do in Momentum burst, will be on stocks which are extremely poor fundamentals.

And that's important again to know because a lot of time you're going to hear in the market.

Oh, only focus on stocks which are true market leader, only focus on stock which are good earnings or good sales or all that Momentum burst doesn't care.

And if you want to make money trading Momentum burst, you should not also care about.

I am going to show you stocks which have no sales, no earnings and they are not really stocks which anybody would consider as having good fundamentals and they made bigger moves than stocks which many people consider as good fundamentals and those stocks are not going anywhere.

And stocks which had no fundamental reason to go up have made bigger moves.

So again let's go to telechart.

For this.

And when we go to telechart, let's look at some of the stocks which have made big moves now.

If you go and see this particular stock one hundred percent confident.

If you have like some fundamental information about this stock, this stock may not be having any sales, it may not be having any earnings.

Or if you look at rhythm, most of these biotechnology stocks, they don't have any earnings or sales yet they have made moves of one hundred percent in swings.

If you look at most of these stocks which have made the biggest moves, they have no reason or they have no good fundamental reason for them to make big moves.

These are all the stocks which in the recent fifteen days have made big moves.

You look at AXSM.

This is not a stock which has any good earnings or sales.

It has a potential to make good earnings or sales, but it doesn't have currently the stocks which have good earnings and sales.

Like I have a list of stocks which are very good earnings and sales here.

They are not necessarily the stocks which were making big moves in this particular move.

If you look at it.

While the stocks which were, which didn't have many of the good earnings and sales, they made good moves.

So if your object is to make money, then you should trade Momentum first for what it is a short-term three to five-day phenomena and do.

Not worry about fundamentals of a stock.

Stocks with poor fundamentals will make you more money.

If you are trading Momentum burst, then stocks with good fundamentals.

Do you need to trade high ADR stocks for momentum.

Burst to work?

The answer is no A stock can be having a low ADR before a Momentum burst start.

And as soon as Momentum burst happens, it is going to have high idea.

So lot of people want to trade only stocks which have a certain ADR now.

Suddenly a stock has a Momentum burst.

When suddenly a stock has a Momentum burst, what happens to the ADR?

Once a Momentum burst happens, what do you think happened to the ADR of a stock like this?

When Momentum bust happened?

And is the past ADR of this stock really relevant?

The moment this happened its ADR increase, right?

If you look at many of the stocks which make this bigger move, their past ADR doesn't really matter, because as soon as big Momentum burst happens, the ADR explodes.

The past ADR is a very backward looking thing.

It doesn't tell you what is going to happen in the future.

As soon as you get a momentum first, your ADR is going to go up now.

If you're only sorting stocks by some low ADR, high ADR kind of a thing.

This stock may not appear on your scan on this particular day, because you pre decided that you're not going to be trading stocks with low ADR.

But that is in the past that is what was happening to the stock before it had a momentum first, As soon as the momentum was happen, the reality of the stock change and it will have an high ADR.

So you're going to miss out on lot of moves because you have this fascination for low high ADR stocks.

In fact on stocks we'll have a low ADR before a momentum burst and then by very definition Momentum burst is a range expansion the moment there is a range expansion, the ADR explodes.

So this is something which you should think through and which you should study on the stocks, especially for some of you who are hell bent on just like any using ADR without really understanding look ADR changes or ADR is.

Going to explode the moment there is a momentum.

So if you have a ADR kind of a mentality, you are going to miss out on many first second legs of moves where the spark pre their momentum burst might.

Be having a low ADR.

So think twice before eliminating stocks which have low ADR.

Do you need to trade low float stocks to make.

Money using Momentum first?

And the answer is no momentum burst can happen on any float stocks.

And in fact, and many stocks which have explosive Momentum burst can have high float.

Also so trade Momentum burst as an isolated phenomena irrespective of low float.

Low float is not a necessary condition for a momentum burst to work again.

Let us look at some of the examples of stocks which had floats of fifty million, one hundred million, twenty five million and they met big moves.

And that way you are not again going to put conditions which are not necessarily for a momentum worse to work.

So let us look at.

Like say TC two thousand and when you go to TC two thousand and look at.

Some of the recent OK this has eighteen point six million as a float, this has fifty million as a float and it worked very well.

It made one hundred fifty five percent movement in a momentum waste.

This made like fifty three percent kind of a thing.

So if you have an artificial thing that I'm going to be trading only stocks below ten million.

You're going to miss out on many momentum waste.

You're going to miss out on many momentum burst.

You're going to find Momentum waste with thirty five million float.

You're going to find Momentum worst on stocks, which has one hundred million float and they will work very well because this is one hundred and eighty-four million shares traded.

On this particular stock.

There is a Momentum burst and the momentum was twenty eight percent, right?

You had a Momentum burst here and the Momentum burst was ten percent.

So think about all the things which are going to add here.

The float is one hundred twenty-three million and you had.

A Momentum burst and the stock made twenty three percent move here.

You have a Momentum burst, stock made fifty nine percent move right.

So float is not necessarily necessary for a stock to make a big move.

Just focusing on low float stock for momentum.

Burst may not be the best idea.

Load is four hundred eighty two million shares traded right.

Stock makes twenty one percent move here again.

There is a Momentum burst and stocks makes a big move so float.

Best kind of a filter is going to leave you out of many good Momentum burst.

Don't care about float, float don't care about two hundred day moving average, don't care about anything.

If you want to make money using Momentum burst, Can a Momentum burst be anticipated?

The answer is some of the Momentum burst can be anticipated.

Not all Momentum burst can be anticipated.

You cannot anticipates something which is a sudden burst of momentum.

If you see stocks which make Momentum burst, suddenly they burst out of momentum.

First part of a Momentum burst is difficult to anticipate once a stock has a first Momentum burst.

If it tries to make a second Momentum burst, in some of the cases, you might be able to anticipate and enter in anticipation of a possible Momentum burst.

But if your idea is to just try and anticipate every single momentum burst, you are going to miss out on seventy to eighty percent of the Momentum burst.

Because by very nature, the sudden range expansion which starts Momentum burst, sudden momentum coming into a stock leads to a Momentum burst.

And when i show you my TC two thousand, you are going to see examples where the Momentum burst started.

Suddenly the Momentum burst was a certain phenomena.

You cannot anticipate things like this.

This part of the move you might be able to anticipate, but this part of the move, no, you will not be able to anticipate many of the Momentum burst.

You'll not be able to anticipate.

The one which are really explosive.

You'll never be able to anticipate.

So keep this in mind.

If your idea is to just try and build all your trading around just anticipating momentum.

Suddenly momentum came in and stock went up forty percent.

So it's not possible.

And sometimes there is an illusion because the chart, the stock has run up a lot.

You look like there was a very low range kind of a thing before the Momentum burst.

But it is not on that day.

The stock may not.

There is no way to know that this stock is going to break out on this particular day.

There is no way to know that this stock is going to have a Momentum burst on that particular day.

So so Momentum burst, by its very nature is a reactive method.

While anticipation is an anticipatory method, can some Momentum burst be anticipated?

Yes.

Can all Momentum burst.

Eighty percent of the Momentum burst will not be possible to anticipate.

- How to select the right kind of stocks from 4% scans
- 2LYNCH is a short form for a set of conditions a stock needs to meet to consider as a buy.

2LYNCH stands for:

- Stock not up 2 days in a row (2)
- Linearity (L)
- Young trend (Y)
- Negative or Narrow range day (N)
- Consolidation quality (C)
- Closing near the high (H)

