Okay, let's look at how to trade breakouts. Okay, breakouts, best methods are one of the most common methods used for making money in the market, right? They've been in existence since the market started treading now. In order to trade breakout successfully, first, you need to define for your type of trading what is a breakout? Lot of confusion happens because of how people understand breakout, right? Typically in the normal course of like and I basically understanding breakouts, people define breakouts as something which is breakout above resistance or twenty day breakout. That's the classical definition, or like in a breakout to fifty two week high or new high breakout or new all time high or a range breakout. That's the definition of breakout, right? If you are very clear about what breakout you are trading, then it's much easier to know what you are doing in on stock b side, on stock b side. When we use the term breakout, it means. Percentage change today is greater than percentage change in last two to five days. So in visual terms, it's a very simple thing which you're looking at supposing. You have a stock, right And which had make it a first move and then it is having like this minor pullback and in this minor pullback. There are four days and these four days were like. And then the price breaks out means like another is a candle, or there is a price percent move which is bigger. Than any of these moves. That is the definition of breakout on stock beside. Okay, I do not care about what is your definition of breakout, right? This is what we mean by breakout. Or it might be a stock is going down, right? And then there is a range expansion, right? So this percentage move is greater than any of this percentage move and that is a breakout. Or it can be a stock which has gone up goes into. And then there is a breakout. Okay, all three are breakouts, okay? All three are breakouts. This. Is a continuation breakout, because there was a uptrend followed by sideways and there is a breakout, right? And so if you see. Here, the stock makes this first move is this day bigger than any one of the last three days on this. Particular day. Just visually do you see that as a big day? So that's a breakout. Similarly, if you're looking for a breakdown, right? If you're looking for a breakdown, is this day bigger than any one of the last three days or two days. So as long as you are clear about This definition of a breakout or a breakdown, breakdown is just opposite of a breakout, right? Then you are very clear, you will be able to find these three kind of situation now. This kind of a situation can can be like an essay here. Stock has a sideways move. Is this percentage move greater than any of these moves in the last couple of days? Like? Basically is it big bigger? Yes, that's it, right? And basically that is the definition of this thing. The third kind of this kind of a situation can be like anything which is like say here. Here. Is this percentage move greater than the percentage move happening here? So, whenever we are discussing breakouts, right? You should be very clear in your mind. If this clarity is not there, then nothing makes sense, right? What kind of a setup is this here on this day? Is that a breakout on this day? So that's a continuation breakout, Because the first leg has been formed or there is a leg in existence, There's three to five days, right? So that is the kind of setups which we call is as two inch breakout or a continuation breakout, right? Here, this is a bottom bounce, but bottom bounce is ultimately what? Bottom bounce is again a breakout, right? Because price has broken out. Price has done a B. Yeah, Was this a breakout? The answer is yes, right? Was this a breakout? The answer is yes, right? Was this a breakout to the downside? Yes, right? So back to back you had a breakout to the upside followed by breakdown to the downside, right? So once, if you are clear about this breakout definition, right? Once you are clear about this breakout definition, lot of things will make sense to you, because this is a continuation breakout, which for which the conditions which we used for classifying it is two lynch. This is a bottom bounce, which happens when the stock is in a minor or a major downtrend, right? So, here is an example, good example of a bottom bounce, right? Stock is in a downtrend. Was this day in percentage term bigger day that. Any of these days, right? Was this also a breakout? Was this also a breakout? As soon as you understand that breakout is something which is a percentage move, which is bigger than this. Then lot of confusion will be cleared, right? That's the first confusion which you need to clear if you want to trade breakouts, Then once you know that you'll immediately say this was a breakout to the downside, right? This was a breakdown or breakdown to the downside, So this is where this will be a continuation breakout, right? And so on and so forth. So these are the three types of breakouts which happen in the market. You have breakouts which are part of a continuation move. You have breakouts which happen because of like an avatar basically. You have breakouts which are basically bottom bounces, right? And then you have breakouts which are consolidation breakout. So if you look at like if you understand these three types of breakout clearly, then you will have a much better clarity, right? Here in this particular example, There's a continuation breakout. This is a bigger move than any of the days in that thing, right? This is also a breakout on this day. I can't get to that particular day, But if you see this particular day, is it a breakout on this particular day? Yes, right? So that is one thing which you need to understand that what we define as a breakout, right? Here you have a breakout, here is this move bigger than any of the days move? It is coming from a big consolidation. So this is a consolidation breakout, right? Long consolidation. After that is this a breakout which is a continuation breakout, right? And again you will get a continuation breakout. You got a continuation breakout and you got a continuation breakout. And now it's just gone into a range. And that is how moves happen. That is how moves start. And once you understand this, you'll find many of them, right? So in this particular case. Is this a breakout, OK? That day you may not be very confident about it, But is this a continuation breakout, right? Is this a continuation breakout? Okay, now that is one thing, right? This is very clear this you need to understand this. If you don't understand this, then rest of it doesn't make sense as to what is a breakout, right? And half the not even half eighty percent of the confusion. Which you see people who have heard breakout your breakouts, which bigger day found or there is a lake in existence, There's three to five days, right? So that is the kind of setups which we call is as two lynch breakout or a continuation breakout, right? Here, this is a bottom bounce, but bottom bounce is ultimately what? Bottom bounce is again a breakout, right? And because price has broken out, price has done a bigger move. Yeah, was this a breakout? The answer is yes, right? Was this a breakout? The answer is. Yes, right? Was this a breakout to the downside? Yes, right? So back to back you had a breakout to the upside followed by breakdown to the downside, right? So once, if you are clear about this breakout definition, right? Once you are clear about this breakout definition, lot of things will make sense to you because this is a continuation breakout, which? For which the conditions which we used for classifying it is two lynch. This is a bottom bounce which happens when the stock is in a minor or a major downtrend, right? So here is an example good example of a bottom bounce, right? Stock is in a downtrend. Was this day in percentage term bigger day than. Any of these days, right? Was this also a breakout? Was this also a breakout. As soon as you understand that breakout is something which is a percentage move which is bigger. Than this, Then lot of confusion will be cleared, right? That's the first confusion which you need to clear. If you want to trade breakouts, Then once you know that you'll immediately say this was a breakout to the downside, right? This was a breakdown or breakdown to the downside. So this is where this will be a continuation breakout, right? And so on and so forth. So these are the three types, Types of breakouts, which happen in the market. You have breakouts, which are part of a continuation move. You have breakouts which happen because of like which are basically. You have breakouts, which are basically bottom bounces, right? And then you have breakouts which are consolidation breakout. So if you look at like. If you understand these three types of breakout clearly, then you will have a much better clarity, right? Here, in this particular example, There's a continuation breakout. This is a bigger move than any of the days in that thing, right? This is also a breakout on this day. I can't get to that particular day. But if you see this particular day, is it a breakout on this particular day. Yes, right? So that is one thing which you need to understand that what we define as a breakout, right? Here you have a breakout, here is this move bigger than any of the days move? It is coming from a big consolidation. So this is a consolidation breakout, right? Long consolidation. After that is this a breakout which is a continuation breakout? And again, you will get a continuation breakout. You got a continuation breakout and you got a continuation breakout. And now it's just gone into a range. And that is how moves happen, That is how moves start. And once you understand this, you'll find many of them right? So in this particular case. Is this a breakout, OK? That day you may not be very confident about it, but is this a continuation breakout, right? Is this a continuation breakout? Okay? Now that is one thing right? This is very clear this. You need to understand this. If you don't understand this, then rest of it doesn't make sense as to what is a breakout, right? And half the not even half eighty percent of the confusion. Which you see. People who have heard breakouts are not very clear about breakout. They're not even clear what is the breakout, right? So that is why they keep arguing till the cows come home. So this is important. What is a breakout, right? The second thing which is important is that in people's mind right? In people's mind because of conditioning, they have read too many books on trading, They have been like any. They have like imbibe the culture of like any this thing right. To them. Breakout means breakout of our resistance, okay? And this creates a lot of problems, because this is not a breakout, which is going to be a breakout of our resistance, right? And it also works very well. Here if you are one of the classical like there are this, You are never going to be saying that this is a breakout right? Because this is like against your religion, right? This is blasphemy. You're saying that look this is a breakout, like there is resistance here, right? It's such a nonsensical way to say that this is a breakout, right? Also to say this is a breakout is like in a blasphemy, right? You're like in a. But here is the thing because the most of the people who follow technical analysis, they use it like a religion, right? It's a religion. So. But here the stock from that breakout made a move of four days, and in four days it made five percent right? So is this a breakout here? So this whole concept of resistance is also going to be a problem for people to get look at this as a breakout, right? But that breakout did it work? And can you find thousands of examples like this of stocks, which are tremendous resistance and which go up and make twenty percent to eight to twenty percent move after the breakout, right? Always remember, whenever I calculate this move, I don't take first day into consideration, right? I always calculate after the first day, so is there eight percent or seven or eight percent move happened after. That, right? So resistance is also going to be a problem for people to get look at this as a breakout, right? But that breakout did it work And can you find thousands of examples like this of stocks, which are tremendous resistance and which go up and make twenty percent to eight to twenty percent move after the breakout, right? Always remember, whenever I calculate this move, I don't take first day into consideration, right? I always calculate after the first day, so is there eight percent or seven or eight percent move happened after. That, right? So you will see that continuously this resistance above resistance becomes a hindrance to people ability to understand and also to trade breakout, So if you want to trade breakouts, right? You have to understand look. And if there is a breakout like this, that breakout doesn't care about resistance most of the bottom bounces, or that is how market bottoms, right? The stocks will have a lot of resistance, right? The stock has a lot of resistance, but it just has such a powerful buying which comes in that. It says you to the resistance, So that is one paradigm which, if you want to trade breakouts, especially if you want to trade like this bottom bounces, if you cannot overcome your own belief system about resistance and support, it's very good, it's going to be very difficult, okay? And that's one of the problem which a lot of people have, which is also going to be a problem for trading range breakouts. Because whenever you have a long consolidation, the stock is going to break out, right at a level, which may not be. It is not necessarily going to be overcoming resistance, right? It may not be overcoming resistance, but, or like any for somebody like this is not a breakout, right? For somebody, this is not a breakout on this day, because they say look in a breakout means this has to cross above this price, right? Means that is the definition of a thing. But even though it failed, the trade did make like five or five dollars move, right, or a six dollars move, or it could have continued, right? Under a different market condition, So it doesn't have to be a consolidation breaker, also doesn't have to be about resistance for it to help work. This is one. If you want to trade breakout, this myth and the only way to break this myth, how can you like? And how, if you're extreme believer of this resistance and support What? How can you change that thing? Means like an How can you change your view about this thing? There is a very simple solution, right? The simplest solution is It's like saying, okay, before coming to America, if you are in some other country and you never visited America and you're only exposed to America through television, through like movies and all. What do you think America is full of what? You think that America is full of like any? Like you saw the Borat movie, right? You saw the Borat movie. You see, you think that America is full of like a swimming lifeguard. Models who are like any hourglass figure, right? Sexy blondes like any. They will just fall at you, right? Then you come to America and they realize look. And i hey, that's not true, right? And so same way you are not going to get like any hunks all over the place like Tom Cruise, right? Or you're not going to find like any. Every guy looking like Brad Pitt, right? Most of them will not even know what muscles are like anywhere. So it's the same thing. The only way to change your views about it is to America. Come to America, right? And visit some real rural part of America and then you'll know, right? It's not full of Pamela Anderson and it's not full of Tom Cruise, right? So the easiest way you can do this is by looking at stocks which are of fifty percent in the last two months, right? These are stocks which are of fifty percent in last two months. And if you study them, then you will. Is that a reality means that is reality, right? All these stocks, this stock had tremendous resistance, right? And it's if you look at it, this will be one of the best performing stock, right? It will be one of the best performing stock. So most of the best performing stocks will. Be stocks which are tremendous resistance. And they had this bottom bonds kind of a move. And then they started making a move and they just kept on moving. They kept on moving. Giving a fat finger to this whole concept of resistance, right? And this is, this is what will change your view about breakouts, right? And that's like so. So once you change your view about breakouts, more opportunities will open up for you to look at, right? And basically that's the thing, right? So that's one of the other thing which is like an important, right. The third thing, which is extremely important is, and which is one of the reason why many of you have such a difficulty getting into breakouts early and that is. Records brought into volume two work. Breakouts. Not Need Volume. To work and you can see that. Again many of these breakouts may not be even on a very year. Was this a breakout was the volume really high on that day and out of that move, how much percentage move has rig done from that rig made fifty nine percent. You can go and check so many examples of this where there are a breakout and the volume was nothing to write home about, right? The volume is actually below average and the breakout works as well as breakout with volume. In fact, any, You buy a breakout with volume many times and that breakout will just sit and do nothing and you buy a breakout which doesn't have much of a volume and it will go up. So this is something which is again one of the things, which, if you see and if you study and do a deep dive on is when you're going to be convinced that volume is not really such an important thing for a breakout to work, again this is very difficult whatever I'm talking about, right? And is the volume really high here? And that stock had a breakout and it kept on going up and from that breakout meta made a move of fifty nine percent, right? So percentage move is more important than the volume. Like if there is a big percent move here on. This particular day. When Goldman Sachs had a clear breakout, right? Was the volume really high. On this day there was a breakout on Goldman Sachs Was the Volume. Really high. And you'll see this again. And again you'll see this so many times, that like if there is a smaller gap, right? If you are trading really small caps and lower price stocks, like in a below ten dollars or things like that, then volume matters, then volume is important. But if you're trading a continuation move volume doesn't really matter, the volume just has to be slightly above the last yesterday's volume and it works right even for bottom bounds. If you study bottom bounds, what is most important in bottom bounce is the percentage change as opposed to the remaining eight or ten days, right? And that percentage change move should take out five six days of thing. That is more important than volume. And consolidation breakout is one place where you need volume for it to work. If you can change your these are all like in a these are very. Difficult things, right? And to change beliefs is the most difficult things in life, right? So in order to make money from records, you'll have to be willing to change beliefs, because beliefs are hard coded and beliefs drive behavior. So lot of you have beliefs that if there is no volume, then the breakout is not good or the breakout like any volume is not there in the morning. I'll wait till the end of the day for the volume to show up. And when the volume comes in, by that time the stock is up twenty percent, So then you're too late to enter, right? So this is a perennial problem for people who are like in a condition to think in terms of volume, right? That brings us to the next next thing. And which is. The most important thing. Probably. Can you make money by buying breakouts on second, third, fourth or fifth day. And this is a continuous, like in a, this is like in a basically continuous mindset problem, right? This is continuous mindset problem Right After a stock has gone up, right? Then everybody is very excited to enter it on the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, third day, right first day. This is the only valid entry for a breakout. The only valid entry for a breakout is first day, okay? The only valid entry if you cannot trade if you cannot enter a breakout on the first day, Find something else to do, find some other setup. Very, very rarely, very rarely you will make money by buying a breakout on a second day. And classic example of that is crocs. How many of you bought it yesterday? I know at least six or seven people and how do I know that? Like six or seven people bought it at least. Yeah. Hey, eg mail, hey eg I really need to talk to you. There is something wrong with my trading. I bought crocs and it like and I bought it and I got stopped out, yeah. But like any. When did you buy it? I bought it Friday. Why did you buy it on Friday? Because I saw on the timeline the discussion saying that it might go ten to twenty dollar, right? Stop fooling yourself, okay? Stop fooling yourself. If anybody tells you that you can make money by buying a breakouts on second day, right? And third day or fourth day, I means I have Eiffel Tower to sell to you. The only valid entry on a breakout is first day. Whatever you're working, whatever do, whatever you need to do, the only valid entry is on the first day, okay? For a breakout. If you want to trade breakout, there is no way you can once in a while. It might work, right? If you cannot enter on a first day, breakout method is not for you and you can continuously keep arguing. I have a wife and I have a girlfriend and I have a dog. And I have a job and I, I'm in Europe and I am in Australia and I am in this thing. But that is your problem, right? It's not a market problem, right? That's your problem. That's not a market problem, right? The only way is to do it like any that is. The first day is the best entry if you want to make money from records. Unfortunately, this is why? Like all these newsletters and all which like tells you, yeah, I am skeptical of them, because it's very difficult to do trading by buying a breakout on a second or third day, right? Most of the time. But hey, people are never miss, people are never going to stop buying breakouts on third or second or third or fourth day, right? And that you see every day and a new set of person shows up on the timeline who will do it again and again, right? And basically I did a boot camp in Arizona and we had a big discussion on this, because there was one person who says by third day it is confirmed, right? Yeah, By third day it is confirmed that there is a breakout, but by third day, how much more is left? How much more is left in that breakout? So that's the thing means. These are things which I am leaving. Those who want to trade breakouts for them they need to like. Understand this, Yeah, miss, yeah, obviously I would recommend everybody to buy breakouts on third day and fourth day, right? Any? Because that is how the first day buyer the more people buy on third day four days very good, right? And that is how we'll make money. But just stop pulling yourself, right? And just stop pulling yourself that you can make money by buying a breakout on the next day do whatever you need to do to get into a breakout on the breakout day before the close, you should be in a breakout on a breakout day, right? So that is like any. Basically the most important thing which you need to understand about breakout, right? The next thing is, What did we do. Where to put a stop on a breakout? The only valid stop on a breakout to me is low of the day or higher. The only valid stop for a breakout like this is, what. Is to put a stop at the low of the day or higher than low of the day? Putting a stop below the resistance, putting a stop at, like any support level and all means your hypothesis is that this is not a true breakout, then, right? If a breakout is true, the breakout is never going to like the breakout has felt The moment the low of this day is the moment. Is this a breakout on this day? The moment? This low of the day of that day, right? The low of the day on that day was what? Like in a ninety six point nine four, The moment ninety six point nine four is violated. Is it anymore a breakout? No, right? Can it recover and go up? Yeah, means like it's possible, but like an I am skeptical. How many times have you seen a breakout which fails and then again recovers and goes up and makes a new thing, right? And you're better off just? So low of the day is the most valid stop as far as I am concerned low of the day or higher than low of the day, right now? If you enter a breakout early in the morning, Then you are saying that kilukane the law of the day has not yet been established in that case. Decide whatever, like to put it two percent below your entry, but anything below. And that, if it violates, is it a breakout? Two percent, two point, five percent, right? Is it a breakout? Then it violates that. Is it a breakout that's the moment? You understand the concept of breakout? You'll be very clear about this, right? The according to me. If you're going to be buying a breakout near end of the day, right? A stop of half of the day's range. Is also sufficient, right? That should work basically. Because, if there is a genuine breakout, it's never going to come back to that half day's range, But sometimes like in a breakouts like this came back, right? And so low of the day is the safest stop. If you're more aggressive trader, you can use the stop of half of the day's range, right? Is that mostly for high price stocks? That is true for most, most of the stocks. Anything which works, doesn't take out half of the days. Like, if you have a successful breakout, it's seldom going to take out half of the day's range, But like, if you want to be safer low of the day. But if you are thinking about, like again, I would say that Look if your idea is to trade breakouts with by putting stops below beyond low of the day, maybe breakout is not the method, right? Method for you, right? So that's what like basically right? C minus O, H minus L. What do I use? I use half half of the day's range, right? And how that half of the days is calculated, is This is the thing right stop up. So let's see. I don't remember how I calculated, but. Stop half is calculated as. O plus C minus O by two, right? So I am calculating it as C minus O. That's how I'm calculating. Because if a stock gaps up, right? Should you really like look at this price and calculate no, right? And you calculate it only as what is the range for the day? So if it is up three dollars, then one and a half dollars is what I would look at, right? So especially, especially when we are in a bullish market, right? I think it's much better to operate with half of the days stops, right? Because in a bull market, if something doesn't work or something just like and breaks out and fades like yesterday happened, right? And what was that stock, which? What was the best stop stock, which like any yesterday did that thing, Right? Axon right, Not accent. What was the other stock, which like and I said was a good breakout and then I got stopped out. Not Asan. Asan yeah means like any, this one, also like any, like any, There was a stock which I think which had a breakout and then it like any, basically I think Axon only, yeah. So Axon, right? And if you see intraday like and it went up, right? And if you entered early right in a waiter, if it was like in a, the range was around, like? So this is the opening print, right? No, this is the opening price and then it went up five dollars or four dollars, nine dollars. And the stop like I got stopped out somewhere here, because I moved my stop to like half of the days and I got stopped out, right? If a stock cannot like any maintain in a bull market, especially if you have a wild bull market, I just don't think that it is worth my time and effort to keep holding it, because that money I took out and I put it in something else which was breaking out and I recurred my losses and made more money from that, right? So in a, especially in a bull market, I think and a half of the days is much better stock, right? And basically so that is another thing, which is stops and breakouts, right? Very important now, here is the thing right most of the time, because personally, what I do is different from what many of you do, right? And I for my own trading, I set a constraint to try and operate with two point, five percent or less as. A stock, right? So as a result, where is two point, five percent or less stop likely to work If I'm putting my stop at half of the day, that means like in a Percently breakout of five percent or less, right? The breakout has to be five percent or less. And as a result, most of the things which I do is high priced, right? Because in high price stocks I can like in a basically like say something like. Thermo Fisher, right? And this is a consolidation breakout yesterday, right? And it's the breakout is two point three eight percent, So what kind of a stop do I need for this to work? Even if I put my stop at low of the day is still going to be two point three eight, right? And basically so that's the kind of thing which I operate in. But if you are going to be trading low price stocks, if you're going to be trading low price stocks, you cannot operate with two point five percent thing. If you are trading stocks price below ten dollars, you will have to have a stop loss of eight percent to ten percent, because sometimes most of the time the good breakouts on those will be twenty percent breakout, there'll be eighteen breakout, right? And then the first day breakout move will be eighteen, so that is what like basically, right? So as a result, if you decide that you want to risk less, then you have to go higher priced. That's the if you want to like in a trade lower price, then you two point five is not a golden standard and then eight to ten percent is what you'll need as a percentage top, because most of the lower price stocks they are going to break out with ten percent move, or they're going to try break out with like in a twelve percent or fourteen percent, right? So that's the strategically that's what I focused on that brings us to the next topic. So we started with these three types of breakouts, right? Three types of breakout. If you are going to be doing continuation breakout, where there has already been a first leg setup, right? The profit potential of these legs based on literally tens of thousands of examples which I have studied and trades which I've done the typical typically after the first day breakout, right? The profit potential in next three to five days is going to be eight to twenty percent. If you're getting a bottom bounce kind of a move again, bottom bounce kind of a move works best on more established stock, right? And you want to buy a bottom bounce on a Thermo Fisher, right? Because Thermo Fisher is a real company has got like any billions of dollars of business or you want to do it on a Goldman Sachs, do you want to do a bottom bows on something which is like a Biotech or things like that? No. So in that case, whenever these bottom bounces happen, right? Then the bottom bounces also typically will have a twenty to twenty five percent profit potential consolidation breakout, if it is happening from a long consolidation and if you are going to hold it for multiple legs, if it continues to be. If it is a successful breakout and it continues to be a multiple likes move, then you might be able to make forty to one hundred percent on a consolidation breakout, right? But many consolidation breakout will also become more likely. The safer, separate target even on a consolidation breakout is more likely to be twenty percent. Very few stocks are going to be making you more than twenty percent on breakouts. What kind of a stock is going to make you more than twenty percent on a breakout? The profit potential of more than forty percent or like any. If you're looking for more than forty percent, then If you're looking for forty percent plus to make. On a breakout, then you need to look at low price stock stocks price below ten. Dollars typically, right? You need to look at stocks which have a capitalization. Below one million and ideally even below five hundred million. Never say never a probability of one hundred billion stock making forty percent is very low. It can happen. But if you are primarily looking for that, right? If you are looking for forty percent plus kind of a returns, right? The second place which can get to that kind of a returns is. Breakout with nine million plus volume. The third situation where you can get a forty percent plus kind of a return on a breakout is when you have a. Normal regular breakout. If you have a realistic expectation of eight to twenty percent and for higher price stocks. Five to fifty dollars, You'll be operating within realistic expectation and not operating in like in a buying island mode, right? That you're going to buy island on the island, you're only going to have like any Pamela Anderson and that kind of servants that is rare. Forty percent plus is rare as long as you understand these parameters of breakouts, the last parameters. Whole periods for breakouts. If you are looking for a continuation breakout, which is like a two linge setup, the whole period will be anywhere between two to five days. If you are doing two lynch, kind of a thing on a higher price stock, your holding period can be five to ten days, because higher price stocks move slowly, right? If you're doing a bottom bounce kind of a setup, yeah, you can hold them for ten to twenty days, But most bottom bounds also are going to have like only lifespan of just a month or something Like Goldman Sachs, this thing, this trade was a one month trade, right? If you kept holding after that, you would have given up all the gains. JP Morgan Chase was just a one month rate, right after that, or two months at based one and a half months, right? And most of the bulk of the move actually happened in the first one month, right? And basically right? And so you can like and I hold them for twenty days. Many of them will be ten days, twenty days to say maybe forty days max, right? But like beyond that you are just like and you're not going to very few bottom bounces will become multi year boost, kind of a thing I'm saying, right? And a consolidation breakouts, again, most consolidation breakout, also, right? In reality, what happens on most consolidation breakouts is, they make their moves. All the moves, even on a consolidation breakout in between ten to twenty days, even big moves of forty percent plus in market when they happen, they're going to be even if you find something which is going to make forty percent and that forty percent can go up to three hundred percent or five hundred percent. What is going to happen is that three hundred to five hundred percent move will going to happen in less than two months, forty days. You can study a lot of moves here like that, right? Where the stocks has made a big move, like there the stock has made a big move up eighty seven percent. But what is the time period in which it made that eighty seven percent move less than two months, right? Here Tesla made a big move of sixty one percent or seventy percent sixty percent. In how much time period did it move? And this was a consolidation breakout, right? And it was a long consolidation. From a long consolidation there is a breakout and it makes a move of sixty percent. How much time period was that forty days or less, right? And you can see twenty nine bars, twenty nine bars, right? Here Tesla made a big move, right? This was one hundred and eighty seven or ninety percent move. And how much time period did it make two months, less than two months, right? And you can continue to look at this kind of moves like here, right from a long consolidation, stock makes a move and doubles, right? How many days did it take to make that move forty days, right? Again here the stock makes this big move and how many days did it take to make the moves forty days, right? So typically, if you're looking for those kind of returns, the whole period is still going to be less than forty days. That's the extreme period, right? So if you operate within this understanding of breakouts, then you'll be able to make money, because very few breakouts, even when they make three hundred, five hundred percent move, are not going to be long term hold, right? This dream people have about holding stocks for long term. This entire move is forty one bars, right? This move is forty one bars continuing to hold after forty one bars Did it make sense to continue to hold up to forty one bars? So think about it. This whole dream of buy and hold and all is not a wrong dream, but that is not the method which we are trading. And if you have to trade The Method Called Buy and Hold and Things. Like that, right? And this is Tesla, this is, this is Taser, which is the most talked about stock, right? And it is the most talked about stock given an ideal example. Oh, you should find things like Tether and all right. This particular move in Taser was like in a six hundred percent, but that is how many setups like this you see, and how many setups where in forty days stock next, two hundred, three hundred percent thing you see, tell me how many of the setups which you look at are going to show you like this. And how many of them are going to show, Like how many I would say, if you do, there'll be like any less than in an entire. Period of last forty years you're going to find moves like this. I would say, less than one hundred would have happened, right? Not even twenty or thirty moves would have happened. But how many moves are going to happen where in forty days or less the stock is going to make three hundred, four hundred, five hundred percent move. And then, after that, if you kept holding, you are going to be like this entire move where the stock made one hundred percent move, it's just twenty three bars, right? This entire move is twenty three bar, Even if you held it, this move was like five hundred percent, but like in a most of the move happened in two months or something, right? From consolidation, then it had a breakout and then from consolidation. So breakouts is a method which is ideally from two to forty days, right? Beyond that. If you want to do things for whole long term, you want to have stocks for long term. Find some other way. Find some other way of finding those stocks right? Find some other way. All the explosive gains in a breakout will happen between two to forty days. So if you know all these things about breakout, then you'll operate in a very different way on records than people who have not studied breakouts and they are trading breakouts, right? So any questions last five minutes? Jp morgan. Yeah, it's a breakout. But do you really see that as a breakout? Like what are the breakouts from yesterday? Which are like any good breakouts? Again? Like any, yeah, technically, if you're like any just scientifically defining then yes. But that's not really what it has to be looking like a big range expansion? Also right? And basically so here, right? This is my list of breakouts which I found yesterday as good breakouts algn. Is that a breakout? Do you really need eyeglasses to figure out that is a breakout, right? Or this? GWW Is that a breakout? Is this a breakout? Van godb. Is this a breakout? Tesla Is Thermo Fisher a breakout? Here? Is this a breakout? Top build? Is this a breakout? Palo Alto Network Is Axon a breakout? It recovered later? I got stopped out. But like that's part of life. Cyber Arc Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a good breakout? Is this a good breakout? I was just asking technically was it good? I wouldn't. Yeah, I know I know you are a smart cookie, you try to finger people, But like that's I'm just trying to explain a concept, right? Is this a breakout, right? Is there a breakout, right? Is there a breakout, right? Is there a breakout, right? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? Is this a breakout? I give you like I posted this list on the timeline, right? And that Is this a good breakout, right? And basically Is this a good breakout, right? Is this a good breakout, And so on and so forth right? And basically like this one is a good breakout red field, that's a good breakout right now all these talks when was the right time to enter them yesterday, right? The right time to enter them was yesterday. And once you know what to look for in a breakout, I am sure that all of you will be capable of finding this breakout on your own. Tesla is like I bought it yesterday in anticipation. Yesterday, right? I bought it yesterday in anticipation, then I sold it for a quick profit and then I saw it breaking out again, so I entered it again. So sometimes like any because the market wasn't really like any showing much strength yesterday I thought like in a this will be a weak rally, but then later by ten. O' clock it was apparent or eleven. O' clock it was apparent. That this is going to be a big thing. So then I entered again, so that's it doesn't matter even if you entered Tesla at the end of the day, does it really matter. If it is going to work, it is going to just keep on going over, right? So does TI sixty five improve your rate of winning on a breakout? No, no, it doesn't improve your rate of winning on a It just allows you to look at this thing anyway I have to go. I have to attend one of these other meeting on that the product launch that deep view they sent an. Invite, so I'm going to attend that launch, so I had to go. But like most of your questions, I will like look at like any leave it under the video of this particular thing and I will answer them in a separate video later. Okay? I'll just. And then there is a breakout and this is a continuation breakout, right? This is a bottom mouse, This is a continuation breakout, which is what we call it toolinch. And then you have a stock which goes up and it can spend several months sometimes it can spend like any years going sideways. And then out of this you get a suddenly you get a big huge and you get a high volume, right? You get a high volume skycraper kind of a volume and then the stock keeps moving in this direction. For this kind of a breakout, for this kind of a breakout, volume is not needed and again you can take like you don't have to believe my words for it. And there is a very simple way in which you can ratify yourself, whether volume is readed or not needed. And how can you ratify that? By just studying thousand bottom bounces right? You study thousand bottom bounces, you're going to see that Not all of them have, like Most of them don't have high volume and they still. Work, but they do have very big huge move which takes out three to five days of highs, right? And basically continuation breakout again, because this is a continuation move. Very little volume is needed. Very little volume is needed to get it going, because it's a continuation, right? And this definitely needs volume, right now Here is the thing out of these two breakouts are out of these three breakouts. Okay? Can you predict this? Can you anticipate this. Answer is no right. Most of the good bottom bounces, Most of the good bottom bounces are surprises to the market or participants or people get trapped, right? And there is suddenly a reversal and the market just keeps on going up, like and that's the best bottom. These are like any. This cannot be anticipated most of the time. And they are violent, right? They're violent, like in the sense like there's a big huge move and from that big huge move the stock. Will just like in a year this is a big move right around that day after the market stock has been going down. So it took out like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, almost seven or eight days, Like in a it made an eight or nine days high. Or it took out like in terms of engulfing bar it like an engulfing almost eight or nine days of activity, right? Violent setup. And then the market just doesn't look back and goes in the direction of that particular thing. Similarly a good consolidation breakout is for many, many months nothing is happening and suddenly you have a high volume breakout, So these are all like in a very this thing can you. Can you anticipate something like this? Yes. As long as you are willing to sit for like long period of time anticipation, right? And this is where? Like the Minervini setup of VCP, right? Or like the IBD setup of Cup with handle, or All those are like basically flat bases and those kind of things is what you are going to have, right? And so, But still to anticipate to exact day that this is going to break out is very difficult. That's why you'll see that when you, when people do these long term base breakout kind of a thing, their win rates are still not really high, right now? Can you anticipate this. Again? Some of them you can anticipate, but not all of them you can anticipate right now, as against these two setups, which are violent. That means on the day of breakout most of the time, when you look at a bottom bounce, most of the time the bottom bounce is not going to be like in a breaking out with two percent or three percent. A bottom bounce will be something which will break out with, Like an essay Goldman Sachs at this breakout, right? And for Goldman Sachs a move up, four percent is a big move, right? And that's a big move. Or JP Morgan breaking out. Here was breaking out with five point, five, six percent, right? As compared to its normal moves. That's a huge. That was like in a such a huge move for JP Morgan Chase, right? So you're going to have a higher risk in this setup, right? Similarly, this is the higher risk setup, because most of the good consolidation breakouts are not going to be like in a one or two percent or four percent. They are going to be eight, nine, ten percent, right? And basically so here these breakouts can be depending on the capitalization price of the stock, which are trading, they can be as low as like an aim just one percent breakout. Also if you're trading autozone, many time autozone breakout might be just one percent, right? That's two point, seven, two percent, Or like in a when you get like in a breakdown, right? This is one point, eight, one percent, right? Or here you get a breakdown, that's one point, seven, nine percent. Or when you get a like in a breakout like this, it's one point, six, five percent. So Artisan is one of those stocks where you're going to get like any this thing. But if you're trading low price stocks, you're not going to get that kind of a thing, right? And then you have this which has a higher this thing, right? So let's look at some of the questions people had, because again the same thing happens, right? And whenever, like we discuss this, people still have. People have inherent need or want, right? It's not need, it's actually a want, right? What are the questions which I saw like in a can I hold. It longer? What is the answer to that? Yes, If you do lot of Google exercises. Means your need for holding it longer versus, or you're wanting to hold it longer versus what the market structure is, right? Those two things are not necessarily in alignment, right? If you are going to be trading this kind of a move, if you want to hold something longer again like any? Then do something which is not this setup, right? Not this setup. Which one can you hold longer again? I answered this earlier, right? And which one can you hold longer? Can you hold a bottom bounce longer? Little bit? Yes. Can you hold a consolidation breakout longer? The answer is yes, right? Because you are getting into a in a consolidation breakout or a bottom bounce you are getting. In right at the start of the move, right? When there is a successful bottom bounce, you're getting right at the start of the move. And this. Move Might Metaphor. Morpheus Into A Continuation. Move, right? And it might have two or three legs. So there it makes sense if you are holding this longer term, it makes sense, but a continuation setup. If you want to hold it longer, because you want right, You want, yeah means your wants, means your wants and what the market structure is are not the same thing, right? And I mean it's like in a yeah, you want like any Victoria Secret as a girlfriend, right? And you want like any Lamborghini as your daily car, that's your want, right? But hey, that's not what you're going to get right? So your want for holding it longer is not necessarily where the market is going to behave. If you are going to be looking for holding longer term trades, then you need to find this consolidation breakout, right? And not all consolidation breakout, also work, right? Many consolidation breakout happen and what happens do all consolidation breakout result in multiple months move? No, right. Most of them fail, right? Most of them fail right now. The second thing is, but it worked when I started trading, right? Yeah, You started trading during Covid nineteen time and they are holding longer term work. But what is the probability of you getting the same behavior which has Happened During Covid Times in the Market. Again in our lifetime? In the entire history of the market, right? In the entire history of the market, How many times the market just had three weeks or four weeks of correction and out of that spy itself made one hundred, six percent move. One hundred, six percent move in less than one point, eight years. How many times that has happened in the entire history of the stock market. To at best two or three times? At best two or three times. So can you base your trading based on that And like expect to make money. You have to design your systems to what is the normal behavior, right? Not what is the abnormal behavior? Abnormal behavior is like any, basically, by definition it is abnormal, right? So you're not going to get this period again in your life. Probably, if you get it like any, you're lucky, right? The closest period where like can I basically high to low, So here is a database of. This is a database which I, which I have like and which I maintained, right? And basically so in this database. Now you have I need to add twenty twenty two but like if you see high to low, right? This was the period sixty eight percent. Two thousand seven is when it happened and two thousand eight that was after a big bearish market, right? So many times it happens before that it happened in nineteen seventy three, seventy four and before that that sixty eight percent wasn't even like any crash and it happened here eighty four in nineteen thirty seven and it happened so in the entire history in the beginning years it used to happen because the high inherently volatility was higher in recent years. This sixty eight percent happens once in twenty years. Can I base my trading based on what happens once in twenty years. Sixty eight percent and two thousand one, two thousand two also doesn't happen. What was the period two thousand eight so see here only three times it has happened, right? Not even during two thousand so be realistic, be realistic, right? And the realistic is, it's not, it's like, that's not how the market works, so your need for. That is not what the market is going to reward you for right? The second, the next question is, if you're saying that the stock should not be up. Can I put a filter of three days? Not up two days or three days? The answer is yes, nobody is putting a gun to your head, saying do not do it. But what is going to happen is, if you put a filter, the stock should not be up two days in a. Row. Supposing right before the breakout. Will you take a breakout like this? Then will this breakout? Will this breakout show up in your scan? If you put a filter like that? So this was up a little, right? This was up zero point seventy five percent, or this was up like zero point seventy two percent. Now this is a proper breakout. Was this a breakout? No, really? So you're going to eliminate a lot of good candidates, So do any filter which you add? Any filter which you add, add it with after studying lot of things, so that you don't like a lot of time. There'll be like just a zero point five percent or like say here again, right? You're going to have this is a point like this is a positive day this is, but this is real breakout, right? So those are things which you need to look at or this align. This is positive day and this is positive day, but real breakout is happening here. So yeah, can you do that? Yes, are we stopping you from doing that? No, right? You can like any do that, but always remember the more filter you put the more filter you put. What is going to happen is? You're going to miss out on some good trade? So the more filter you add, you miss out on some trade. But if you are very busy and you are like in a really so dumb that you cannot visually identify this move and then, yes, then put in all the filters you want filters, right? Because primarily I'm dealing with full time traders, or like, that's the objective actually when we started the site was to cater to active traders, right? I think for active traders putting in more filter, you're going to just like any miss out on a lot. Of good setup, So that's why I don't think any putting in filters is a good idea. Same same like. The next question is if i put TI sixty five as a filter, right? If you put TI sixty five as a filter, what is going to happen is you're going to miss out on these breakouts, right? You're going to miss out on these breakouts, Also because these breakouts are not going to have TI sixty five above one point zero Pi. So any filter which you add, yeah, TI sixty five might help you here. If you are going to be doing only continuation breakout, so keep that in mind if you're going to be doing this. Okay, now let's look at this breakouts, right? After these three breakouts, right? Which one is the easiest breakout? Which one is the easiest setup? Let me just close the window because there's a glare coming on. Okay? Which is the easiest setup? Continuation? This is the easiest setup, because this has lot more context when this breakout happens, right? This has a lot more context. There are lot more probabilities in your favor when this happened. Because the first leg is established, so you know the quality of first leg, the consolidation is done, so you know the quality of consolidation and the breakout day. You can know the quality of so out of these three setups, which one is more easy to trade and which is the low hanging fruit is this. But if you are trading this right, then can you hold it for longer term? No, Because you're buying something which is already in a trend, which already has established first or second leg, so you holding it is of no use. You want to hold longer term, find bottom balances, find consolidation breakout, right? So that's the way to think about it. So the lower hanging fruit in breakouts, the lower hanging fruits in breakouts is continuation breakout. That's the low hanging front now. The other thing is, all these bottom bounce kind of a setup, they are clustered, they happen when the market itself bottoms. So how many times in a year are you going to get bottom bounces in a typical year? Most of the typical years don't even have a bearish market, right? Bearish market of eight percent correction happens once in once in two years, right? So, are you going to find lot of bottom bounces in a year? No, right? Are you going to find lot of continuation set up in a year? The answer is yes. Are you going to find lot of consolidation breakout, right at the start of a bull market? The answer is no right at the start of a bull market, this is going to start, then second level setup is going to the bull market becomes two, three year old companies have made a big move, then they go sideways for some eight or nine months, right? Tesla made a move in a bull market, right? So it makes a move, then it goes sideways for two three months, Then there is a consolidation breakout. After that it goes into a consolidation for three to four months. And then another consolidation breakout happens after that it goes into a consolidation for almost one year or nine months, and then there is another consolidation breakout, which happens, So the consolidation breakouts, some of them can happen at the start of a move, because of there might be some stocks which are consolidating. Most of the consolidation breakouts happen when. Towards Like in the Later. Half of the bull market, right? So that means, if you know this, you know you look at the setup, which is going to show up early and which is going to show up more times, is a continuation breakout. And that is why once you spend some time in trading and once you understand this, the bread and butter setup for most swing traders is a continuation setup. Right? Because that's the low hanging fruit in the market where you are already have a first or second leg established, first leg established and then you look for a Now this is again become a consolidation breakout, right? And this become a consolidation record, because it went sideways for more than like in eight to ten days. So it became a consolidation. So if you understand this, you know what is your number one priority? And this is why? There is a guide for this, right? And there is no guide for this and there is no real guide for this, right? Because why is there? It is like that, Because this is the bread and butter setup, right? This is once in a while the market goes into a correction market correct t two and zero, eight goes below twenty, then you suddenly one day or two days, you find all the bottom walls and then the setup never shows up for many, many year or months. Right? Then again this setup is going to show up when the market has already made the one year it has been in a bull market or eight months or six months it has been a bull market. Some stocks have made a big move, then they go sideways and then they have a another breakout. Right. Shopify makes a move right here it goes into.

