Navigating the stock market is akin to navigating a bust lane casino. Endless chimes of slot machines symbolize the constant price action of stocks. Each game has different ways to draw you in and make you want to play. But in reality, the house has the edge in nearly every game you play in that casino much like a professional gambler. Discerning which games to play. A trader must learn to sift through the overwhelming amount of noise to find the very select few spots with true edge in the world of trading. Most slot machines offer little more than the illusion of opportunity random, inconsequential ups and downs that don't necessarily reflect anything but a coin flip. And that's before factoring in fees attributed to commissions and spread, the savvy trader, comparable to a skilled poker player, knows the key to success lies in selecting the right tables or stocks and playing the right hands or trading opportunities based on the game's context or market conditions. One of the most eye opening points I learned. Early in my career due to working at a prop firm, is just how few tickers offer meaningful edge each day. When I was at Trillium for over ten years, we had an internal statistics page that would aggregate data on all the tickers. The one hundred plus traders within the firm were trading one hundred plus of the most skilled intelligent traders making their own independent trading decisions. Yet despite a sea of thousands of tickers, there were really only one to five tickers each day. That provided meaningful P and L to traders think about how crazy that is way less than zero point. One Percent of Tickers. Were found to offer any edge. I truly believe that the overwhelming majority of stock price action is total noise over offering no meaningful edge. It's just meant to draw you in and make you think. It's something that it's not ultimately to take your hard earned money. That is why it's our job to identify the characteristics of that zero point one percent. It's our job to solely trade stocks within that zero point one percent. It is our job to only trade specific stocks in very specific ways. We, when they set up in a very specific manner, are you starting to understand why Doing this is so damn difficult. Let's take a peek at what noisy price action looks like versus price action with true edge. First here is a chart of spy on April second, twenty twenty four this is the market on a normal day trading in a range and not doing anything interesting, We're trading with low volume. No fresh news anywhere throughout the day. Not breaking to new highs or lows, anywhere pretty much in what I like to call no man's land. Overall, I would summarize this chart as just noisy random price action. Now let's take a look at an in place stock. The type of stock we want to be trading a stock that is clearly respecting levels and breaking out in a clean manner. This is the ticker BMR from February twelfth twenty twenty four that that day. BMR announced a collaboration with Nvidia. The sector and theme are in play and very hot this year. Announcing a collaboration with Nvidia is huge news. So the ticker BMR is trading on tremendous volume and making beautiful big clean moves with a large trading range. Given all of the qualities between the two charts. The first chart is comparable to a random slot machine, while the second is like sitting down at a poker table. At a poker table much like in BMR. The odds are in your favor. Then it's up to you, whether you want to play the hand or not. As you saw in the prior two examples, our whole career depends on finding the best trades and the setups that are most likely to trade cleanly. In the next video we are going to break down and analyze exactly what tends to make up the zero point one percent of tickers that we want and need to be involved with.

