After watching the previous video on how ninety nine point, nine percent of trading is noise, you must be thinking what does the zero point one percent look like the zero point one percent of setups are? Only the absolute best of everything you do. That means I'm looking for the zero point one percent of headlines that are the most impactful and clear cut. Or I'm looking for the zero point one percent of the most euphoric stocks or the most beat and down stocks where the stocks doing the zero point one percent highest volume versus their average daily trading volume. Think about in poker terms there are one thousand, three hundred twenty six possible two card hands. But the reality is, you only want to play the best of them same in trading. I want the extreme of whatever characteristic it is. I'm looking for. Let's dive into a few examples of what that looks like. First MSTR on May twelfth twenty twenty two MSTR moved from three hundred and fifty dollars to one hundred and thirty five dollars in one week on zero fresh news. Just a week ago people were buying this at three hundred fifty dollars and now they're selling it at one hundred thirty five, almost two thirds lower when nothing had changed fundamentally. But the price of Bitcoin, you could smell the panic and the fear at that point on the daily chart. It printed five down bars in a row with the daily bars increasing in size as the days passed. Think of it like this five consecutive selling days with increasing pressure is like a rubber band being stretched more and more every single day. What do you think it will eventually do when it snaps? It will revert to its original size. That is the same rough principle we're aiming for here on the last daily bar we see it's overextended as a measure from the lower Bollinger band and very far from the moving average. We see the volume ramping up more and more. Each day we trade lower one point five times its previous. Day's trading volume. This was the weakest stock in the Bitcoin sector relative to others. Like Coin, Mara and Riot. Overall, this type of price action on no fresh news is incredibly unusual. Think about how many multi billion dollar companies are losing over fifty percent of their market cap in a single week. Not so many for all the characteristics mentioned above. This goes into the top zero point one percent of tickers. Because everything discussed increases your odds of a very good trade. The second example is SMCI on February. Sixteenth Twenty Twenty Four SMCI moved from three hundred fifty dollars to over. One thousand dollars in a single month. The initial breakout over three hundred and fifty dollars was on preliminary earnings after multiple legs higher in a row. Specifically we covered ground from six hundred dollars to over. One thousand and there was sustained volume throughout the up move. This chart was easily the most euphoric stock in the semiconductor space, especially when compared to others like Nvidia, ARM and AMD. The final three days of price action are an even better example compared to MSTR before daily bars began to expand, but they were even more emphasized due to gaps between days. For example we closed under eight hundred and then gapped up over eight hundred. We also closed under nine hundred and then gapped up the next morning to open over nine hundred dollars. These are all forms of overextension and the fact that each daily bar progressed in size in addition to constant gap ups, was a huge indicator of price expansion. The acceleration in price and volume on the final leg up was more than on the preliminary earnings day. The measure from the upper Bollinger band was incredibly extended and very far from the moving average volume was constantly increasing with each passing day. Why would somebody be more aggressive buying at one thousand dollars. A no fundamental change than they were buying at four hundred dollars when the preliminary earnings were released. This situation is almost the exact same concept as the MSTR chart, but to the upside, a huge multibillion dollar company is going way more euphoric than anything else in the market at that time. Let's take a look at what a zero point one percent headline looks like. This is Microsoft on July eighteenth. Twenty twenty three Microsoft came out with details regarding pricing on their newest AI offering. This headline came out during an AI theme driven market when a lot of stocks were moving on the AI buzzwords. One of the most liquid and most watched stocks in the world with very liquid options chains off the news. There was a huge spike in price and volume. Thousands of headlines get released even each day. How many headlines are market moving in so big of a deal that they move? One of the largest public companies in the world. Multiple percents. Let me tell you, it's very rare. This headline was a zero point one percent of headlines that come out and those are the ones we want to learn to get involved with. Now. Let's take a look at something that is a perfect example versus an example that's noisier. First the zero point one percent of intraday breakouts This is the ticker VVOS from November twenty ninth twenty twenty three. This stock was in play due to huge fresh news and enormous volume in a market where microcap biotechs had been exploding. Retail is obsessed with shorting low floats, so many people are offsides shorting. This stock VVOS makes a steady, strong leg from dollar four to dollar twenty. We consolidate all day and then break out above twenty dollars on massive volume. That is a zero point, one percent breakout and a setup. We're going to be diving into much deeper later in this course now here is an example that is noisier. Nvidia on November. Twenty-ninth. Twenty-twenty. Three Nvidia had not. Been in play in recent days and weeks. There was shitty volume and no fresh news. So this immediately missed two of our key metrics for stocks considered. To be in play. The stock after the open spends the next hour totally range bound given the lack. Of catalyst and volume. This is something I largely just want to shy away from it isn't that this can't ever make a clean move, but I don't feel. The odds are in my favor to justify it the same way you can win with ten seven in poker, but it often doesn't justify playing the hand for another round of examples. Let's compare two I, a really, really good one versus probably the worst ticker you could ever think about trading ever. This is ARM from September fourteenth twenty twenty three. The arm IPO was a hot IPO in a very hot sector semiconductors. It opened four dollars above its IPO pricing at fifty two. The stock made an initial opening drive after breaking above the opening range. High fifty eight bucks, huge ranges, huge volume, multiple clean moves to take advantage of we love it. In contrast to that. This is DYCQ from February twenty first twenty twenty four. This is just a really crappy, random IPO. Never heard of a company before super liquid, no tradable price action. It could not be more polar opposite than the arm example from before. In order to stand a chance at making money in trading, you need to find the zero point one percent of tickers that. Are doing something special. The best headlines, the best breakouts, the best setups and the most euphoric or beaten down stocks in future. Videos. We will detail more about the nuances you should be looking for to identify these. For now just keep on internalizing these concepts.

