As we all know, trading is a high performance activity. Every single day we need to come to play and come to win and come to perform at our best. So Tom, what does high performance mean to you? Why is it so important? And how do you go about helping people or traders in particular achieve it?

Sure, well, I mean, it can look a lot of different ways in a lot of different professions, but the way that I think about it often is performing under pressure. High performers learn how to perform under pressure and the best performers can do it in a sustained way. Not one day good, next day bad, but they can sustain it over time. And I think one of the most important ways to become a high performer is first. To commit to being excellent at your trade, your craft your profession. Whether that's somebody playing in the NBA or CEO running a public company or a trader, you have to be committed to excellence to ever achieve high performance. And once you do that, once you commit to that excellence, then what I love to help teach people to do and coach them to do is to build habits of excellence. One of my favorite expression expressions is from Aristotle, where he said, when it came to excellence that it's a habit right? And if you can build habits of excellence, then you become a high performer. And I think that's one of the things I spend a lot of time on with traders is figuring out what habits of excellence they can build so that the way they start the day, the way they sustain themselves through the day and very often the way they finish the day in the week is all built on these habits of excellence.

And so when I was running an office, we had to hire a lot of traders each year. And of course some would make it many, many wouldn't. And oftentimes I feel like a lot of traders didn't quite know what they were getting into. They didn't recognize that. Oh wow, this is, this is different, this is not a normal job. And do you think most people can attain excellence if they want it bad enough, Like is excellence attainable, attainable by everyone.

It depends on the profession like you know, as you know you and I both know, we're never going to play in the NBA, so we could be pretty good, but we're never going to be excellent enough to play. I think that's true Across just about every profession is there are some intangibles, there is some DNA, some intellect etcetera necessary to achieve sustained high performance and excellence in any given craft any given profession. So I think what I really find intriguing about trading and working with traders is the cognitive acuity and the cognitive intensity required to be an excellent trader day in and day out is really tough, I think. And one of the great challenges of being a really good trader is sustaining that acuity and that intensity of focus day in and day out. That's the challenge versus, let's say you know your speed running down an NBA Basketball court. It's physical versus mental, but that intensity still has to be there.

And do you find that people that have that intensity? There's some really strong why for why they feel. That way? Because I found that most people, if you look at some high performers take, like Elon Musk or whoever else, a lot of people kind of come from adverse upbringings and backgrounds. So does everyone that reaches a high level of performance come from adversity. Or do people kind of Find a why in Other Areas.

I think they find. I think people come from all kinds of backgrounds. I think it doesn't hurt to have some adversity in your background, because you learn at younger stages of life to overcome challenges. You learn key things like persistence and perseverance, where you don't quit just because things get tough. You stick to it. So stick to itiveness perseverance that is enabled by some, you know, adverse experiences and challenges as you're growing up for sure. But I've also worked with CEO's that have been. On a track from their young years to the CEO suite, who are also incredibly intense and super duper high performers. So I've seen all sides of it. I think a little bit of adversity helps because in trading, for example, it's tough right you're going to get kicked to the curb. You're going to experience some difficult weeks, days, even months over the course of a career and being able to stick to it and maintain your confidence and belief in yourself as you work your way through, that is really important to sustained excellence and that comes with deep belief in yourself by overcoming adversity at.

Different times and so when a trader has made this commitment to excellence and they are achieving a high performance level, what do you think that looks like. What do you think that means for a trader in practice to me?

It's all like all the traders that I work with. Right now we have an agreement that we're not talking about tomorrow when we're working together. We're talking about sustained excellence so over time becoming an excellent trader, because I have very young traders to some very seasoned traders and they're all at different stages of their career and craft and so what they need or what we work on is very different. But I think that committing to excellence every year is really important because I don't think you get there and stay there if you're not committed to it. So I always start there. Often I will turn a trader down that says can we work together. I'll say, I have an interview process, an assessment that I take each trader through and if I don't pick up on that commitment to excellence, I generally say, it's probably not a good idea for us to spend time together, so to me, that's where it starts.

So traders, I know a lot of people that start on this journey, they don't understand what they're really embarking upon. But for those of you that know, this is something that you want to pursue, that you have that, why, that fire and that passion for making this happen, it all starts with a commitment. It starts with a commitment to working hard, sustaining it and following the process.

