One area that I always think is super important whenever you talk about any of this stuff is to really be explicit about What Strategies of Elite Performance and the Mental? Game are appropriate at different stages. It's always been my belief that at the beginner stages most people should really be focusing on developing their daily process and finding edge more than the psychology and elite performance stuff. However, as you approach intermediate, advanced and then elite, the mental aspect becomes so increasingly more important and I would argue that once you're an elite trader and you have a developed playbook and strategy and you're at the knife's edge, your performance is almost fully determined by your psychology and your ability to execute and stay in flow each day. So in this video we're going to talk with Doctor Tom Crawford about whether he agrees with that assessment and the tips and the relevant practices for traders at those various stages.

Yeah, I actually do agree with exactly how you laid it out. Lance I think it's important for traders to realize that they're going to go through different stages in the course of their career and that early on as a matter of fact, I turned down way more traders than I agreed to work with as a coach, because they're not ready. They have a lot of other work to do first to get their process, down their strategy, their risk management philosophy, you name, whatever it happens to be and then get the reps and the reps and the reps, so they get better and better sharper and then as they grow into the next stage and phase of their career, then high performance coaches like myself and Doctor Katz, we can become way more effective at helping them keep their edge and even get a better edge and perform at a higher level again, sustaining it over time, which is always the goal is sustained excellence and so I think, understanding that you're going to go through different stages in your career is actually really important and don't start sort of the big psychology work until you're ready for it. Because first you got to become a competent daily trader and build self-confidence in yourself because of the work you're putting in the reps you're putting in and then you'll kind of know when you're ready for that next step. And that's when we as coaches can be way more effective helping and then it really is about understanding how to get in your zone, how to get in your flow and how to stay there. And that's when you know the really top performers become excellent at that and.

So I guess you keep on coming back to the importance of staying in that flow and what what separates the elite trader and those that? You work with from from being able to sustain that and stay in that state, especially in a trading day, which is a very long day.

Very long day. I think it's one of the one of the things that's most intriguing about trading is you know again having worked with tennis players and basketball players and you know it's it's more discreet right you, you put it all in there for two, two and a half hours, you know, maybe four hours in a tough five set tennis match, but you know that there's an endpoint right where you get to then go get your massage and co-bath and all of. The rest and recover trading. You're in there till the bell yep and that's tough and so. One of the things that we coach a lot with the high performing traders that we. Work with is learning how to get into the zone at the beginning of the day, meaning having a way to get ready. For the day that allows you to be in flow and in your. Zone when the day begins. And that's habits and rituals that you build for yourself looks very different for every trader very different. Just like it does for elite athletes. I'll give you. A great example from tennis if you don't mind. This is a fun one. Anybody that's been a tennis fan knows that Two of the greatest players ever were Federer and Rafa Nadal. Totally different approaches to getting ready for their matches and it's because they understood this continuum that we all work on that requires either high levels of energy or being calmer. And this is one of the things that I help traders gain an understanding of is where do they? Fit in that continuum and then we build their preparation to get them in that zone at the beginning of the day. Because it's easier to stay in the zone than it is to work your way into it once the day begins and all the data and all the variables start coming at you. It's very tough Once that happens to then still be trying to figure out how to get there. So if you picture a fetter or Nadal, if you're a tennis fan, if you ever watched them get ready for a match, their preparation was on opposite ends of the continuum. Rafa looked like he was getting ready for a boxing match. He would literally use shadow boxing in the locker room prior to his. Matches and he would be getting himself fired up and energized and energized when right across the locker room. Roger Federer would be doing exactly the opposite. He would be calming himself down, he would be lightly skipping rope, he would be shooting the breeze with his coaches and trainers, just to keep himself calm and relaxed, because that's the way he got himself into his zone. So traders have to become aware of where do I want to be on that continuum. Some want to be up a little bit higher, some want to be down a little bit lower, but you got to start there to start the day, because it's way easier to stay there. And that's when you feel calm, confident, focused, disciplined and you want to start the day feeling that way.

When should a beginner trader start to worry about stuff like that?

I think first get competent in trading, right? Understand the craft, understand. I would learn from as many other traders as possible early in a trading career, because they have a ton of wisdom and experience to share. And I think that's when you can build up your skill set and build up your process, practice, practice, practice, rep, rep, learn from others. I think a little bit of journaling still helps at that stage where you can reflect back and say, when was I at my best, you know, when was I at my worst? What kind of things impacted? I think a lot of that. Lance.

