Okay, let's look at like mind clarity nine million EP.

Okay, nine million EP.

In order to understand the background, nine million EP, you need to understand EP.

So EP is basically.

Setup in which a stock has a very game changing catalyst, really big catalyst, which is likely to make the stock go up fifty to three hundred percent in a quarter or less, right?

So something which has a catalyst which is so big that it is likely to lead to the stock doubling or going up like just a small, very quick period of time, right?

In a year, in two months, the stock went up two hundred fifty percent from earnings.

Which was released right?

Now that's the kind of trade is really what EP is.

Or GRWZ went up one hundred and thirty one percent in five days from our earnings, right?

One hundred and thirty one in five days.

That's what you're looking for, right?

But the problem is there are only three to five such opportunities in a year, right?

So yeah means if you get an opportunity like this every day, there'll be like any.

But I see on twitter right every day people claiming that this is an EP.

That is an EP, right?

So it's a very rare trade, but there is a clearly identified catalyst list.

And that catalyst is such a big catalyst that it is going to make the stock of one hundred to three hundred percent in few.

Days, days to weeks, right?

In a weeks to a month or so.

So that trade is what I used to do for many years, right?

But it is not such a common trade.

And the second thing is that a lot of time in like unless it's a very like this was something which is not on anybody's radar, right?

And if the stock is on somebody's radar, right?

Even if it has a big catalyst, the stocks is going to gap up in one day, forty percent, thirty five percent, eighty nine percent, So then everything happens in one day or two days, and your ability to make money from that overall decreases As a result of that you can't depend on EP only to make money, So to extend the same idea.

I was looking for a setup, right?

And I found a setup by studying stocks which anytime during the year make three hundred plus move.

And I found a common characteristic in majority of the stocks.

And that common characteristic is that their move starts with nine million plus volume.

So as a result, nine million EP is a way to find stocks which are likely to make big move in a short period of time and it's so the original EP idea I call it now EP life changing and then I have EP life changing plus I have EP Nine million.

Now.

The good thing about EP Nine Million is that this happens three to five times in a year.

But EP Nine million, how many times does EP Nine Million happens in a year?

Every day you are going to get one hundred fifty stocks which are having IP Nine million, right?

Out of that one hundred fifty, two or three have a catalyst which is capable of making forty to fifty percent move.

So you can find anywhere between one hundred to two hundred trades by EP nine million dollar, right?

So that's the idea of like having a setup and expanding that setup into a EP Nine million.

As a result of that, what you are doing is you are expanding your universe of setups and you are not dependent on this.

If zero zero of this happens, right?

If zero of this happens, I'm not worried because EP Nine Million is going to give me lot more trade.

So EP Nine Million, that is the basic setup idea.

The idea behind EP Nine Million is again to move your account.

Why big increment of twenty to fifty percent in one trade, right?

That's the idea twenty to fifty percent in one trade now in order to do that.

It's very simple, it's the simplest method and that's what every time it creates like an a So EP Nine Million has only one condition, right?

And what is that one condition?

My favorite part of this thing is like such a simple thing that every week I get like two three emails, saying oh, I heard from your members or something.

You have some method called EP Nine Million, right?

And can you send me the scan for it and I send them a scan and the scan has only one condition, right?

If you take away the this thing, it has only one condition.

And that one condition is that if you take away the c three that is my personal this thing I don't buy, but it has only one condition.

Volume is greater than eight point nine million, right?

It's not what after you run the scan is what you do?

And having a framework to analyze the stock which shows up in that particular scan is really what makes that method the EP method.

So what is the framework?

Once I find stocks which shows up in this.

I put them in three categories, right?

Three buckets, Right?

What is the cat?

Cat is a stock which has a clear catalyst, identifiable catalyst.

Which will be something like earnings or sales or like an analyst it beating the analyst target, right?

And by big thing.

Or it will be like something like government policy change, right?

Government policy change or it is a new product or it is a CEO change, right?

Or a product recall or.

Price, hike or a disease.

Or shortage, right?

And as a result of that you can clearly identify why this stock is going up or going down, right?

And you could clearly identify why the stock was down on a sixty five point seven, because there was a we are very clear catalyst, right?

And if you run this thing, you can find catalyst, right?

And it's not very difficult.

Docs is something where there is some questionable story catalyst, right?

Like currently, right?

So let's say like some random stock you find, like, say, let's say like an essay, right?

And I don't know what R does, right?

It says rental and leasing services, right?

Supposing on Monday morning.

It comes out.

With this thing, right?

And it's saying look and a Rider system has diversified into AI something, right?

And and the AI based system is going to be like any managing traffic or some like that.

What do you think is going to happen to Rider system?

Obviously it will make twenty five to thirty percent move, right?

And it will make twenty five to thirty percent move, obviously Rider system is a dollar ninety nine stock, so probably that happening is low.

But like if it was some one dollar stock, right?

So let's say like there is some stock which is like trading at some absolutely ridiculous price, right this, right?

So let's say whatever this shrimp company, right?

This shrimp company comes out with this thing, saying they developed an AI infused shrimp, right?

That AI infused shrimp when it goes into her tummy, it like any hunts for impurities and it gets rid of all the impurities.

As a result of that you're like any going to have zero this thing and it as a result of that AI induced thing colonoscopy, colon cancer risk is decreased by whatever, right?

And so what do you think will happen to BTR.

This stock is not even trading, but like if I was trading at one dollar.

What do you think is will happen by the end of the day to that stock, again?

Data is an issue, So that's why, right?

It will, yeah, it will make in today's market, it will make one hundred, two hundred, three hundred percent move, right.

Now That is because it's a plausible, right?

AI is a plausible catalyst.

Similarly currently like say anything which comes out with saying look we got this technology by which EV batteries can make thousand miles run, right?

And we found a technology to like an Amica EV battery go up per thousand miles.

What do you think is going to happen to that stock?

Is it a plausible story?

Is it a plausible story?

Yes, one hundred percent plausible, right?

And is EV a hot thing currently?

Yeah, right?

And it is a hard thing, so it is going to fly.

So dogs is anything which is where there is a story, right?

It's a story EP.

And the market typically is going to move five times more on a story EP than on real catalyst, right?

The market moves five times more on stories than on real catalyst, So it's a very good way to find that.

And the volume tells you everything here, right?

If the volume is really crazy, then you know you look at that catalyst is something people really like, right?

So whenever you look at EP nine million and when you.

Start looking at volume and you see some crazy volume, right?

And on some stock, which has like in a year seventy five million shares were traded, right?

And before that one hundred four million, and like prior to this story, right?

Prior to this story taking over and becoming a big thing on a typical day.

This stock used to trade around one million to two million shares, right?

One million shares, now it trades seventy five million, So volume tells you the story, right?

Or this particular stock is a classic example of like story EP, right?

Why do you think this stock went up two hundred ninety percent on this day?

Anybody knows why it decided went up two hundred ninety percent on this.

Day?

Yeah, they said like we have recruited an x FBI percent to find out why our stock price is being shorted or why our stock is being shorting shorted, right?

And now that's a story which is like an AI.

That's a damn good story, right?

And because of this story, the stock went up six hundred forty seven percent, right?

And it tell me like this stock went up on that particular news catalyst, right total of eleven eighty eight percent, right?

Now show me one catalyst based stock, which had good earnings or sales, which has made eleven percent move in ten days.

So this is completely, it's a story, right?

This, what else can you call this but a story, right?

And it's just a story and the stock makes a move, right?

And the stock makes a move, so story stocks are just stocks which are story now.

The third kind of a stock which is going to show up when you run this scan is something which shows up daily, so it daily does nine million volume.

So why do I want to look at those stocks which daily does nine million volume?

Because what is my objective of running this particular?

What is my objective of this setup is to move my account by twenty to fifty percent increment right?

Now the stocks like say there are a lot of good eps yesterday, right?

So like say yesterday meta, which every day trades nine million or twenty million shares right?

Is showing up in this scan.

Meta doesn't have immediate catalyst.

It is not a dog, right?

But this is a stock which is very liquid and the stock say goes up another ten percent.

Twenty percent can you make?

Can you put big size and like in a move your account?

If not ten twenty percent.

Can you move your account by five to ten percent in one trade?

The answer is yes, right?

Or like say yesterday we had a very good like anything this apple, right?

And the Apple had a catalyst, also yesterday, right?

Apple had a catalyst, also since it was a liquid lava and it had a catalyst, Also now can this stock go up five to ten percent and it's Apple right?

If it goes up ten percent, can you put in a big size on apple and not worry about like anything.

So that's the three kind of opportunities we show up, right?

And if there is identified catabolist kind of a stock, it's invariably going to be something which if you do a good job of NTRT MTRT before it shows up in nine million, you will know that it is likely to show up in nine million, right?

Because yesterday there was a stock which showed up here, right?

Did you know before the market open that this stock is likely to make a big move.

Yes, right?

Because the earnings was good.

So in that case, most of the stocks which will have a genuine catalyst, right?

Or genuine catalyst, you would know that they are going to like anything They are going to have that kind of a thing.

So you may not even like even this go to which was clear.

Like any kill it was going to go up based on the earth, right?

And basically so as a result, if you do NTRT, MTRT, you're not going to find one hundred percent of the catalyst end of a stock, but you're going to find a lot of them, basically right?

So all that I do is here is what I do right?

And I do this.

Let's do it now the same way, right?

And you don't need to take it anywhere, but like here, let's go and look at like an EP nine million scan output from Friday and let's see now here Is there a plausible?

Is there a catalyst for this move?

Actually, it may start things, right?

So is this something which I have a confidence that this is going to work?

No, right.

Meta this is a clear.

It's a very good setup, right?

And it's a very good liquid lava setup.

It has earnings which the market reacted positively.

It had a very shallow pullback, volume was very low.

There is no four percent breakdown just a good setup, right?

Is this a buy then as a liquid lover?

And the answer is yes, right?

And depending on when you bought, gapped up three percent, right?

And it gapped up around three.

Two point, five percent, or two point, two, four percent.

It's up around six percent, so four percent.

And if you put your stop at around half of the day's range, what is your likely going to be risk on this one around two point, five percent, right?

So Nvidia now this is.

This was a buy here, not here, right?

Because it's up two days, so that's not a good liquid lava spy again.

Better buy was yesterday than like anything.

AI, this is a story stock, right?

There's one hundred percent on story stock, right?

Tesla again now.

Is this a good setup?

It's a liquid lava, but is this a good setup?

The answer is no.

So no right.

Microsoft was a better buy here, right?

Apple clearly like and it was a breakout.

It had a catalyst.

Analyst had raised his price target to I think one hundred seventy, or what's the price target raise?

Which happened on this thing on Friday?

I think Morgan Stanley analyst raised the price target.

Yeah, it raised it to one hundred and eighty, right?

Which is significantly higher than where the stock is, right?

And a lot of time like analysts raise their price target, so there isn't twenty percent upside implied twenty percent upside, right?

The lower is one one hundred eighty.

They took it from one hundred seventy five.

Their earlier target was one hundred seventy five.

They took it to one hundred eighty.

Okay?

So is this a good setup as a liquid?

LA answer is yes, right?

Is this a good set of no right?

Why is it down?

But like here is The thing you want to find out.

Why is this stock down this much?

Because the volume was very high.

It was one of the highest volume thirty eight million, right?

So you go to some sort of a new.

