Okay, let's look at how to profit from nine million now, in order to understand that you need to first understand what was the original idea. And thinking behind this whole setup idea now in EP episodic pivot, you're looking for a stock with a catalyst, right? And the catalyst is so powerful that it makes the stock go up hundred to three hundred percent or. More in just. Few weeks or months, right? So that's the kind of stock you're looking for basically. And because when you see the catalyst and you can analyze the catalyst and you know the strength of the catalyst, you have a high conviction, Because you have high conviction you can put a large size position, This whole thing of EP works only if you are putting in large size position. If you're just putting in five percent of your account and it goes up one hundred percent, it's not going to change your life, right? And it's a large position you can put in because of conviction. So as a result of that, your account in one trade moves one hundred percent or fifty percent or more or sometimes even more in just one trade, right? Now that is what EP was. But the problem with EP is that the number of trades in a year. Is going to be limited to only three to five life changing eps kind of a thing, right? So it doesn't give you a confidence that you can like and make lot of money by doing this. So as a result of this, my thinking was looking what is the real purpose of EP as a catalyst from account growth point of view, from account growth point of view. What it does is it allows you to in one trade move your account by forty to fifty to one hundred percent, So is there another way to do this and that another way should be more frequent, right? So in order to do that, that was the starting point Thinking I looked at all the stocks which make big move of one hundred percent plus in any time frame very right. There are a lot of stocks which make one hundred percent move in just like in a couple of days, right? And basically like here is an example of a stock it went up like in a say thousand percent or three thousand percent in just like in a two days, right? And there are a lot of stocks like this which make big moves here. This stock has made like in a one hundred twenty three percent move in less than six weeks or two weeks, right? And basically this stock has made here it made a four hundred and thirty-four percent move in just. Like an. So what is common? What is common among stocks which make these big moves, right? So obviously one of the ways to look at it is whether it was because of earnings, whether it was because of sales, whether it was because of valuation or whatever, right? But none of that explains, none of that explains why stock makes a move. So the only thing which I could find at the beginning of a big move was that they had big volume. And what is the nature of that big volume? Or what is the absolute value of that big volume? It is a big volume, right? And if you look at now, even this year itself, right? This is universe so sorted by YTD. And if you see the big moves, the big move starts with a big bang volume, right? There's a big move. Did it start with like just one million shares or one hundred thousand or three hundred thousand shares? No, it was started with a big move right here this is a big move. How did it start? Also started with a I think there's something wrong with this, but like. And if you look at it, it also had these nine million breakouts and things. Like that right in the here clearly nine million, right? And so if you see here and this is just like in a sample from just like in the last three months, right? You'll see that here the stock made a big move, right? And there was at the beginning of that move, there was a nine million breakout right here. Or like any riot has made this big move and at the beginning of the big move there was a nine million breakout right? So essentially, if you study this, you'll find that look. And most, not every but most big moves will have at their beginning a very big volume surge, which can be see here. This stock made a move of seventy-five percent in just. Like in a couple of days and it started with a nine million breakout, So after I discovered that, So here is really the crux of what I'm doing for my own trading is, when you have a normal breakout, It's a signal, but it's not a powerful signal, right? So when you have a breakout which has a nine million plus volume, It's not, it's giving you a stronger signal, it's a much stronger signal. Because that kind of a volume doesn't happen on these kind of stocks for many, many months or years, so it happens suddenly It indicates that there is a lot of buy interest or sell interest in the stock, because this works both ways, Like if you look at the stock, which are down a lot. You would see that all of them would have also had, like in most of them not all of them would have had. So this. If you didn't know anything about first Republican bank, right? You didn't know it started going down and nine point three million shares were traded. It has never traded nine point three million shares, right? Has never traded nine point nine three million shares in its entire probably existence. So was that a signal it told you something was bigger, This was a bigger magnitude signal, here, nine million breakdown, right? And that is a bigger magnitude signal. Or like an essay anytime you have these bigger magnitude signals, right? Or something wrong like PacQuest. If you didn't know anything about regional banking, and if you just run that scan, did it tell you that there is something happening in the regional bank, or there is something wrong with this stock? The answer is yes, right? And so that's the idea behind this nine million breakdown, right? And here our demand biotechnology made a big move here it was up, like in a three hundred fifty percent, and when it broke down, it broke down with forty six million shares volume, and since then it is down seventy one percent. So whenever you get a high volume event, it has information. And that information is very clearly that there is a big buyer or a big seller, right? There is a big buyer or a big seller like look at CHGG, which is a troubled company, right? And you see that here it started going down and this was seventy seven million shares, it broke down with seventy seven million shares, and since then it has never actually record. And now it is down almost seventy seven percent, right? Till that time it never traded that kind of a volume, right? And it was doing reasonably well. The stock was up, like in a five hundred percent, but something changed. So that's the signal, right? So that allows you to create a higher magnitude signal. And then the trades from nine million you're taking for its ability to move your account forty to fifty percent, and not just for eight to ten percent, which you do in a normal combination scan. Kind of a situation. So that's the objective behind nine million EP, now in order to do that, I have created a process, right? I created a process, because when you get a nine million breakout, sometimes there is a clear catalyst, right? Yesterday there was a breakout on this stock and twenty-Thirty-two million shares were. Traded, right? Now did it have a clear catalyst that had a clear catalyst, And as a result of this catalyst this stock has made this big move and it is capable of making even bigger move, because it traded almost like basically half the float kind of a volume. It traded on that particular catalyst, right? So there is a catalyst here. But sometimes you have a stock which is up and you don't know why it is up, right? And can you find a catalyst for this, except for the fact that it is just some story Chinese stock or something, right? And so when I run the scan, right? I'm trying to categorize the trade into three categories. I'm trying to categorize them into three categories and those three categories are clearly one where there is a catalyst, Right? So which is clearly identifiable. It can be either earnings, right? Or it can be sales, it can be new CEO, it can be large order, But it is clearly identifiable kind of a thing. CFO leaves the company, right? Or their product gets FD approval or FD or drug trial news is good or whatever, right? Basically. So there is a catalyst which is clearly identifiable. Not only it is identifiable, But once you look at the catalyst, you can with a reasonable amount of this thing, you can look at this and you can say, look at this stock is likely to double because of this catalyst, right? So that's like in a really clearly like you can. Find the strength of catalyst, once you know, once you study the catalyst, obviously this, this assumes that you know what you're talking about, right? And I mean, it's like obviously, if you're new to this, you'd not know strength of catalyst, but that's the skill which you have to develop, right now there is other types of stocks and they make big moves and those kind of stocks which make big moves, they have some catalyst on their nine million day, but that catalyst is something which is very dodgy catalyst. Something which is like in a really, something which like say in the case of IMAM, right? It has a drug which might get approved, right? So it might be because of that it is going up, like? So the catalyst in these cases is such that it's not immediately clear, or those catalysts are like say AI is a classic example, right? Why this is this stock go up so much and again this move started with nine million breakout, right? It's because of this story that AI is going to take over life, right? AI is going to determine whether you're going to have chicken for dinner or whether you're going to have. Tacos for dinner, right? AI is going to determine everything. So it's just a story, right? It's just an attractive story. And as a result of this story, the stock made this much amount of move. So when you study stocks which make big moves, you will see that stocks with catalyst make big moves. But for every stock with catalyst which make big moves, there are five other stocks, or only twenty percent of those stocks moves. Big moves can. Be explained by a catalyst, which is like really identifiable. Eighty percent of the stocks make big moves even bigger moves than the stocks with on some dodgy catalyst, right? You really had to believe that. AI is going to take your or your life to like and basically believe in this kind of a hype and the stock might move based on that, right? Like if you look at like say some many of these stocks, like in a many of these stocks have some dodgy catalyst, right? And they make big moves, like say Space made a very big move here, right? Why did it make such a big move? And that was like three hundred percent move, right? And three four times it make the same move based on a catalyst that we are going to colonize the Mars, right? We can't even get the rocket off, right? We can't even get the rocket off from Florida to go up, like in a ten miles above. And then like we are going to colonize the things, right? So like this there are a lot of these dodgy catalysts, right? And they are completely like in a like currently you have. So many of them, Like just making crazy moves for no apparent reason, and they just make those moves because somebody believes in the story, right? Somebody believes in the story. As a result of that they make these big moves. Especially a lot of these biotechnology stocks fall into that category, because out of all these biotechnology stocks which are like life changing drugs in reality, ninety eight percent of them don't even make it, right? And only twenty percent make it So you are going to have a lot of these story kind of stocks, or whatever like in a is the story currently or Bitcoin, or you remember the NFT or some complete like any here there is another example of breakout based on something like this. And the stock made three hundred, twenty five percent move because of some story, right? And So as a result of this you can make money from stocks whichever dodgy catalyst, right? So there is like they have some catalyst and that catalyst is just a story, but they also make a big move. And then when you run a nine million scan, you're going to get stocks with catalyst, you're going to get stock whichever dodgy catalyst, You're going to get stocks which every day trade nine million, right? Now Nvidia every day trades nine million. It's, it's highly liquid stock, so it is trading that kind of a volume now, But that was not the case, right? And because it did multiple splits, and because of multiple splits, that is what has happened, right? But if you look at Way back when Nvidia was in a multi year range, right? So it spent like these many years and then it had a big breakout on a high volume nine million kind of a thing. And from there it made a thousand percent move and that time it had a catalyst, also, Or if you look at AMD for that matter, right? And it had a catalyst and it had one hundred twenty six million breakout, right? And one hundred twenty six million breakout once a new CEO came in and from that one hundred twenty six million volume traded kind of a thing, it has made five thousand percent move, right? So these stocks, which are the third category of stocks which I call them as they every day have that kind of a thing, right? I call them as liquid lava, right? Because they're highly liquid. That is the third category of stocks now. Each of these category of stocks I trade for a reason. The reason why I trade this is very clearly. If I can find a stock with the catalyst, right? Find a stock with the catalyst, and if I know what is the catalyst. And if I conviction, then I can put a big position, then I can put a. So if I find something here, I can do big size, I can put fifty percent of my account, I can put one hundred percent of my account. I can go margin put one hundred fifty percent of. My account, Because if there is a clearly identifiable catalyst and I know based on that catalyst, the stock is going to go up two hundred or three hundred percent, then I want to do as much size as possible, right? And move my account in one trade as much as possible, So here fastly made this move, right? And that was a two hundred seventy percent move, but based on the catalyst before the you could know you knew that this stock is likely to double at least, right? So, so you could like and I put in a big enough size to take. On that kind of a trade, So that's the way now. If there is a dodgy catalyst, right? Say, let's say like there is some water bottle company which comes out and it suddenly breaks out with fifty million shares and they say this bottled water, the bottle which we have made has some properties in it. Because of which, if you drink this water from this bottle, then it is going to improve, It's going to make you ten years younger, right? So obviously, this is a dodgy story, but because of that the stock can still make five hundred percent more, right? Because there is enough people who want to be young, So as a result of that it will make that kind of a move, So can I take size? No. So I can take a smaller position, but what I am looking for is a bigger magnitude move. I'm not looking for eight to ten percent, then I'm looking for a bigger magnitude move here, right? And same thing like with liquid lava, because this is highly liquid. If there is a proper setup here. And if I can see a proper setup, right? And because it is such a liquid stock. If I can see a proper setup in Tesla, or if I can see a proper setup, it can be just a swing trade, right? It can be just a swing trade, But can I go big on a trade like this in terms of size without having any difficulty? I can like any go in AMD. Can I buy one hundred thousand shares of AMD and not have a problem? Can I put fifty one hundred percent of my. Account in AMD and not have a problem and still go to sleep. Or in Bank of America can I put a big position size. Can I put a big position size in Citibank? Or can I put a big position size in Wells Fargo? Because they are highly liquid stock, right? And the probability of something going and plus you can do that with a fairly close stop, right? And you can do that with a fairly closed stop basically, right? Because they're not going to move very fast, But they still, if you put big size, you can still move your account by five to ten percent in one trade, right? So that's the objective of doing this. So there is a big size trade. I'm willing to put here. There is a big size trade. I'm willing to put here, Because liquidity and all these stocks also tend to be most of them tend to be highly stable businesses, right? Because they are stable businesses, you can put a lot more in this. So this is how I look at this nine million as a way to make money. The objective of nine million is not to find a stock which is going to be making. Eight to twenty percent more. It is to find stocks which are likely to make fifty percent to three hundred percent or more. Move, right? So I'm not in a hurry to take profit on most of these, right? And basically, if I see something with the catalyst right now, and because of this, it's not something where I'm putting a stop like can I get into a nine million breakout with two point five percent stop? Yes, if it is a liquid lava, right? And if it is a liquid lava, two point five percent is still going to work. Can I get into a dodgy catalyst kind of a stock with two point five percent? The answer is no, you need a stops which might be five to ten percent on this, but because you're going to make forty fifty percent, you still make sense right here, again catalyst kind of a stocks you're not looking for just putting in a close two point five percent kind of a stock. If there is a life changing catalyst stock and it is going to double or triple, I'm willing to put ten percent on it as a stock, right? Eight percent, ten percent, five percent, and again depends on how you buy, Because most of the stocks with the clear catalyst will have you'll know ahead of the time, also they have a clear catalyst, So if you do NTRT MTRT, you're going to catch a lot of these stocks and you're going to buy based on the catalyst before even the liquidity shows up. But in case you missed, you can still buy. So that is the three ways in which the nine million I use to find trades, right? Basically the idea of the nine million is clearly to find larger trades, larger trades, which are not really swing trades, only right means they can end up being a swing trade, because many of the big catalyst based moves, also if there is a clear catalyst, they happen very rapidly, So it's not necessarily I'm looking for these for holding longer term. What I'm looking for is a bigger magnitude moves. So these are three clearly distinct setups within setup, right? Nine Million EP is not just one setup, there are three setups in it, one is a catalyst based kind of a stock where you have high conviction and if you're looking for high RR, kind of a thing, right? Then you're going to get into this now here again you're going to get high RR, but because of the dodginess of the catalyst. Like can I put one hundred percent, one hundred or one hundred fifty percent of my account on a Biotech stock? Means I've done that when in the beginning years I did that and I learned my lesson, right? And I learned my lesson so I would not do that on that kind of a stock, but can I put twenty percent? Can I put twenty five percent? Yes, right? So that's the way I look at these. These are not going to be a high RR trade, but they still have an. Because if you can find these big trades, very liquid trades, they can move your account. And because there is so much like there are so many liquid stocks, which trade that kind of a volume every day. If you can find only smaller moves still, you can still make money because they are highly liquid, right? And like Ford is highly liquid or Amazon is highly liquid, right? So you might catch only five, ten percent. But if you can do size, you can move the account so that's the idea behind nine million breakout. And in order to do this, well, first and foremost is, you need to be a catalyst expert. You need to understand catalyst, you need to understand catalyst. You need to have sources where you can find an information about catalyst and become good at projecting what a catalyst is going to lead to right. Basically like say, when you see something like this, anon arcs, If you have the understanding you should be able to project, you look this can make this stock go up two hundred, three hundred, four hundred or five hundred percent, right? So if you have that kind of ability, then you will be able to make money from this. If you don't have that kind of ability, then you're just going to look at it as one scan. This is not a scan, right? And the scan is the least important part of this. It's the most important part is the understanding of the catalyst in this particular case, right? And basically, if you understand the catalyst, then, yes, If you don't understand the catalyst, it's difficult now not all catalyst, I'm expert, or? Right? I didn't really frankly understand the now I understand, But on the day on which the bank imploded. I didn't really understand the catalyst or I didn't believe the catalyst, because I don't really trade banks, right? But I have a good understanding of growth stocks. I have a good understanding of any catalyst which will be sales acceleration or earnings acceleration. Or something which is in fashion, something which is a retail or something which is a restaurant or something which is a consumer discretionary product, right? So that's what I am focused on, basically. So this is the way in which you can make money from nine million record. And the good thing about nine million breakout is that, if you don't want to go and do this work where you have thousand stocks to go through and you want less number of stocks to go through, then Nine million is one of the ways in which you can find less number of stocks, right? And the signals are more powerful. Like today you have a lot of these gold stocks, which are showing up right when the gold stock rally started, it also started with a nine million breakout, right? It all started with a nine million breakout, so you can see that Like in a big moves cry, in whichever big moves you look at it, you'll find that at the beginning of the big move, there is always this jumbo volume, or like any from yesterday itself. This is a example of a stock with the catalyst Enox, right? And basically which again did nine Million also today. So that's the way you can develop these. You can use this here you have gold. Did it start with a nine million breakout? Yes, it started with a nine. It's a gold. Gold stocks are not going to double triple, right? Means, some people believe that gold stocks are going to double triple every year, But in reality, probability of a gold stock doubling tripling is fairly low, right? Because they have float of one point eight billion, and for obvious reason, right? They cannot but can advance micro device if it has a catalyst, can I can it double triple? Yes, right? Basically, so that's how you can use. So you can use the nine million breakout to generate a higher conviction signal. You can use the nine million to create, generate or find trades which have the propensity to go up more than eight to twenty percent. So somebody like this person who says you should focus on high RR trades, right? So if you want to focus on high RR trade, Nine million is where you're going to find high RR trade, right? So that's the one which we have to focus on, right? So any questions on this. I have one question it is regarding Fisker FSR. I remember you had mentioned that Fisker was A cat on twenty-fifth because of the European news, but my question was the setup like My question was like it still needs to the cat and dog still needs to qualify a setup right before we take it. So was it not a setup here as a bottom box, but the T one, two, zero, eight was around thirty ish thirty five that is not required for like in a nine million breakout, right? And this is a separate setup, right? And see the problem is like once people start thinking in that kind of a trading, which is based on just pattern is a different way of trading. This is not based on pattern. Some of the best rates you're going to find, like see right here, right? This was a nine million breakout here and which was a very good breakout, right? It made sixty seventy percent more. So nine million breakout has to be is a separate way of trading. If you use the rules of momentum burst to it, you're going to be like doing a suboptimal job of trading. This requires a different way of thinking. It requires a different way of looking at things, right? And there's a catalyst and a lot of the stocks which have made big moves like. And they are going to come from some, like the biotechnology stocks especially they're going to have some really crazy or no pattern or something. And they'll just have a catalyst and after the catalyst comes in rest of the things don't matter, right? And basically so that's how it is. Thank you so much for clarifying that. Any other questions you're going to find lot of biotechnology stocks in nine million, because any stock which is going to make a big move in biotechnology, if it breaks out without that kind of a volume, I think it's not really game changer kind of a catalyst, right? And I guess they do sometimes, they do make moves without that kind of a volume, but most of the big ones, they will all be that, right? They are all like going to break out with that kind of a volume. So obviously can you make this five million, can you make this seven million? And like, yeah. But so the more you reduce the volume threshold the more stocks. You're going to get. And then the task of like in a it being a selective. Signal goes away, right? And that's the problem basically.

Hi Ichi, I just want to confirm this kind of setup, so I don't have to worry about movement burst or bottom bounds or continue Asian breakout, so only I need to worry about this nine million plus catalyst Catholics. That's all right. Yeah, So can you look at?

So here there was earnings and there was a nine million breakout, right? But here is the, here is the thing, right? And what is the objective of nine million? Is to find rates which will make fifty percent, one hundred, three hundred percent move right now when I looked at on that day based on the fact that it has six hundred, twenty six million float, right? And its capitalization is always twenty billion. I didn't think it is going to make fifty one hundred percent move and it might sound like Donkey bridges his own tail. But there are a lot of people who are convinced on that day that this is the EP and they are going to make two hundred, three hundred percent. But you need to know this is why the strength of catalyst is important if the float is six hundred, twenty six million and the stock does what? Like you know what volume did it do that day twenty seven million is it really. Worth. I mean, that's not really right. Float and cap is so important like for this to work, so was it really a game changing catalyst, kind of a EP which is going to make.

Fifty one, it wasn't so every time you see a new start with nine million, you're gonna look at the catalysts with flight, okay?

So you have to go through the whole process of looking at what is the catalyst? In this case there's a clear catalyst, right? And like yesterday I looked at NNOX, right? And that's why I remember that correctly because I looked at I went to my this thing. I went to briefing dot com, I looked at everything I looked at, like what is the story on NNX and what people are projecting and things like that, right? So it received a clearance from FDA, which is just like this thing, right? So they are obviously companies put out this thing and all so I went there, I looked at it, I went to the Seeking Alpha to look at it, right? And I to just see because in Seeking Alpha there are a lot of people who are experts and they have done some work already on these kind of things. So I just analyze the catalyst and do I think that it is going to double triple I think it. Has a high probability of doubling based on that catalyst, right? Any? But it's a biotechnology medical kind of stock, so I didn't want to take a big position and I thought this will become a better candidate for low risk entry, because by the time I researched and all it was up like it faded later, but it was up thirty or forty percent, so I wasn't really willing to put like that kind of a stop for a stock, which is going to double because it didn't really make sense to me. So I thought it will pull back, it will set up and then I'll enter so. But every time there is a stock in nine million, the process is to answer the question, is this a are these? Like and do you have these gold stocks? Are there really stocks with catalyst today? They just gold stocks showing up like. Uber has a catalyst today, right? Uber returnings, right? But like Uber has a float of one point seven billion and it has a capitalization of sixty one billion. It already is up coming into the earnings, it was growling into it, so can this double or triple? What is the probability of this uber doubling? I did this analysis today and I thought like this is at best of ten twenty kind of a mover, because it's a sixty one billion company float is one point seven billion, right? If the float was say ten million shares and this was say two hundred million, I would have said this company is going to double, right? So, yeah, so the process is very simple the process is you as soon as you look at a stock here you have to look at like obviously, once you do this daily, I know this stock every day trades nine million, right? So I know this is a liquid lava, so I don't have to look at like any. What is the catalyst on it? But if I see something, then I want to know what is the catalyst, right? First thing I want to know what is the catalyst?

Yeah, Like if you trade liquid lava, do you looking for the pad the pattern?

Then I'm looking for a pattern, then it has to be a good setup, either a continuation setup or consolidation setup or a bottom bones, right when it is a liquid lava. But like if it is just showing up like can I say some sort of. Like today you don't have anything but like say let's if you do make this scan, say make it last five hours and if you start looking at star like here, then one needs to find out what is like I did, find, went and find out what is the catalyst, right? And that's why? Why do I have this multiple news, sources and things. Like that people think like look why does this guy needs multiple news sources and all? Because some sometimes you find information on the smaller stocks only on certain news services and certain news services don't cover these kind of stocks, right? So that's the thing basically.

Okay, I think I got my I.

Am not again like another person who's asking how do I differentiate between liquid lava, this thing and all based on scan. I think, I think you have not understood the concept, right? And basically so I think and I have done this presentation multiple times, right? I think it will help you. If you go and look up the videos which I did just couple of weeks ago on nine million EP, because it's not the scan which tells me what is what, right? And I, it is what work I do after that. It is this thing which tells me, right? And it is this tab which tells me what it is, right? And if it is going to be a genuine catalyst, right? And if I put NNOX here and I see that it doesn't any sales, right? So I know this is not something which has a catalyst based on earnings, Then I go and see the news right To do nine million kind of a thing you'll need some sort of a news source, whether it is free or things I don't whichever one you don't need, like in a pet server, but you need some, right? So there I know why it is going up. It's going up because it has got some system for X Ray or something, right? And then AI so obviously based on that, right? And I it's it's a story stock as far as I'm concerned, right? And how do I know which is a cat like in a. If you do this daily, you know Amazon trades that kind of a volume daily, right? You know that Seeking alpha, Yes, it is a paid service, I think some four hundred dollars I think. Are some odd number like that. And obviously for me all these services cost over a large capital is a very small. It's not even like, it's not even zero point zero one percent, like any cost on the overall capital. So I can have the luxury of having. If you don't have that you can just use finviz, right most of the time you should be able to get most of the news on finviz, which is free so you can like and I go to free invis and look at NNO and you should be able to still get the news, right? You don't need any of those services to do this work according to me because here why not start today? Nano system receives update clearance if you can't use this, then use Twitter, right on Twitter some smart Alec must have. Done the research and Hugh put so you just put like any and go here and you'll see what news. So obviously you have to be careful because the people who post on Twitter they have a wasted interest, right? Or they are trying to pump Also sometimes so you have to take it with a grain of salt and not just believe all the things, right? And they are going to say oh, the most amazing thing has happened and all. But if you can't find, then it's easy to find information on this particular emotional I. SEE Reversal Imaging Technology. Functional Simply and technology addressing global health unique business model. So that's the way I think it's some X ray thing, but it is much better. That's what I heard so so you research right? And that means you cannot trade nine million breakout, right? You cannot trade nine million breakout, if your idea is not to become good at understanding businesses and all like And you're not going to make it right? And I means it's not something like. Anybody who wants trades which are going to be making twenty or thirty or forty hours you need. To have this thing right? Gold stocks are just liquid lava. They're just liquid lava. They trade that kind of a volume because there are so many people who are crazy about gold stocks, right? So they trade that kind of volume almost every day So beyond that like it doesn't really matter. Gold stocks can have a real catalyst, right? And the gold stocks can have real earnings, So how can there be dogs Like they cannot be like any gold stocks. Many of them have actual earnings and all right. So it's not as if like they are companies with just this thing story. Stock is definitely something like Gold has earnings, right? And it does millions of dollars of sales. It has sometimes it has high profitability, also so sometimes they go up based on profitability. Many times they go based on just liquidity or breakout, right? So that's the thing right?

So eg I have a question I asked about the differentiating between liquid lava and cat and dog, so now, if I were to clarify it first, we look for the catalyst for earnings. That's where we use the Magna fifty three formula to see if it is a life changing catalyst or not. If not then we decide if that news is story or not and if not then it must be liquid lava where we use those three patterns. Am I understanding that, right?

Means, if you do this daily, right? If you do this daily, you will know liquid lava because they every day show up, right? So it's not like any can look in a you're going to. Like say Amazon is going to show up every day, right? Or like say AMD shows up here every day, Tesla shows up, TQ shows up every day so far. Whatever reason right so far has a float of six hundred seven million shares traded, so it shows up here every day and some stocks like that will show up every day, so over a period of time just because you look at those stocks every day. You know that those stocks have that kind of a volume every day. Yeah, you can run a simple scan to find it. Also like you can run a scan which looks for like in a last five days this thing. And you'll find the liquid lava, so thank you. You just have to start using the method and just in couple of weeks, You know, Bank of America shows up every day and this thing shows up. Soxel shows up every day, right? But sometimes the dog like in a that's the thing, right? And I have a difficulty putting in large amount of capital on dogs, right? But the people here, many members who have no hesitation in putting in large sizes on dog, they double triple their account on those trades, right? Somebody made two hundred, fifty million, two hundred fifty thousand trading this stock just two days ago. Remember here right? This stock he made two hundred and fifty, so he had no hesitation putting like in a big size on that kind of a story stock, right? To me I was scratching my head. Why is it going up? Why is it going up, right? And he bought like some fifty thousand shares, so putting in all his account, right? So. Largest size. There are people who trade ten million fifteen twenty-five is like in a large capital, obviously at a certain capital level You run out of like any how much you can do, right? And I mean it's like at a capital level above certain limit. You means like I made lot of money trading very small stocks, right? The capitalization was hardly ten, like in a hundred million or fifty million, right? Those really nano cap kind of stocks, but can I do that nowadays? No, unless they have a liquidity like. Can I buy large size in this kind of stocks means like can I buy fifty thousand shares of this year? Fifty thousand shares is only going to be what one hundred thousand in this particular stock, but that is not going to move my account, right? Because I have to move in order to move my account, I need to put sizes on a position of around ten to twenty million minimum, then something happens, right? So it's it's a different story. I think at like in a currently, also I'm not trading certain means like and I look at liquidity not only market cap, but like a lot of stocks. I don't trade because it just doesn't make sense, right? And because you cannot really put in the size, right? And you cannot really do much with those stocks in terms of how much they are, Yeah, I mean so anything is going to be patterned, but like another catalyst if the catalyst is life changing, right? I don't like if the obviously the stock should not be rallying into that catalyst, but if the catalyst is life changing, the catalyst tells me the stock is going to go up two hundred percent, three hundred percent. I'm not like I'm going to take that rate, right? And a far fetch here I knew that looking a far fetch had a catalyst, right? And so it's going to go so and it did go, right? And it did go big, right? And again there was a catalyst here. But most of the time the catalyst and the pattern together you have to look at it, so you don't look at only like a catalyst with a good pattern is always the best trade, So any questions specific to this nine million thing, because that is something which is a difficult thing for a lot of people to understand, Because if you are coming in from always like, can I say, here are a couple of trades, obviously the market conditions always affect all these, also right? And here are a couple of trades which I looked at as like. And basically and I had large position like Noah right now. To me this is a nine million stock, right? And a nine million breakout, And to me any stock which has two quarters back to back of thirty nine percent sales growth is a cat, right? And anything which has like so so it's growing like in a, It is growing sales at like one hundred percent plus, right? So does it have a catalyst for making a big move and the answer is yes, right? And it had a very good catalyst for a potential, So based on that I thought like this stock had a good probability of making a big move, but obviously the whole sector imploded right? So proportionately I had a big position, but it didn't really take off at all, right? And by third day you knew it is not going to take off, so I closed the position without damaging my account. Same way, here hims has a nine million breakout here, right? Fifteen point four million shares traded nows. Bunch of people are ordering viagra, right? They don't want to go to the pharmacy and ask for a viagra, but if it is going to be delivered home, they are buying it, right? So see the sales growth here. So it has a catalyst as far as I was concerned, But again the market conditions being what it just didn't take off, right? Anyways, here also it had earnings and it then never took off, right? And so. So market conditions are also playing in it in terms of like here a lot of factors were in favor. Two point four billion was the capitalization, float was obviously, float is large, you want a smaller float, So that's what like means, these are recent rates which I did from nine million where I had like put in larger position size because I. Thought that, but it didn't work. And these are just recent right in the last couple of days, right? Yeah, I'm still going to apply time stop, right? And because if it is going to work, you know immediately, it is going to go up, right? And I means whatever worked, right? And I say grwz right as it worked as a nine million I didn't buy. This year and I like any. But here, when it is got a genuine catalyst, it just is a bullet, the bullet is never going to come back, right? Far fetch. Also if you look at far page, the bullet never came back, right? Did the bullet come back If the bullet comes back, it's not worth your time, right? And it just the whole idea of this is not to hold long term, right? And the whole idea is to find an explosive move. Yeah, they never give you a second chance, right? And I have so many people saying I waiting for a pullback, even in this case of NNOX, right? In retrospect, I should have just taken a smaller position in this particular stock. I thought it will pull back and all that you know it will pull back. After making one hundred percent move only, right. This method is for people who can use little bit of thinking, okay? This is not a method. It is just like you are just going to look at a pattern and work. This is the thing. And if you cannot understand this catalyst and you don't have sources for catalyst, it's going to be difficult. It's going to be difficult. So that's the way you can make money from nine million. The advantage of nine million is if you are going to be focusing on life. Life changing EP, right? Life changing EP will happen only two or three times in a year, right? But this thing, a stock which like had earnings many quarters ago, right? Can again have a nine million EP. And from there, like under the right market conditions, the stock would have still made forty fifty percent move right. So it gives you so many opportunities, it gives you so many opportunities. That is why I always look at the stocks which are in the bucket zero one bucket, These are my buckets, these are stocks with. So if the stock is showing up here, if it is a nine million from any one. Of these, I consider that as a stock which has a cat right and which is a cat catalyst, right? Obviously, I do some research, but that's the way like those are the stock which have earnings or sales or something, right? And I say here this was a stock nine million breakout, right? And a year started at that time Lyft had a catalyst, right? And a lip was growing crazily. So the amount of opportunities which you'll find in nine million is significantly higher, one hundred times more than if you are just focused on EP. That's where like another earnings, the sales was growing like this, right? And basically so so what people know about EP outside of like in a stock B-side and they are. Looking for those EP. I am not dependent on those kind of EPS to make money. Now, right? And that's not even my primary setup. Life changing EP is not even my primary setup. Nine million EP is the setup. Yeah, I would not buy like an so like say today I don't think it's a game changing catalyst and like it's a good catalyst kind of a thing, but like say uber. But it already rallied into this thing, right? And earnings here like in a fastly right. And this was the earnings day. But by that time, the stock has already run into earnings, right? So there was nothing. And here you didn't had enough information to make that call, so so yeah, Uber is just a Uber is not going to make a means never say never, but probability of Uber making a big move is float one point seven billion capitalizing sixty one billion. That's not what is going to make big moves, right? So that's the thing, right? Almost every single bigger means like bigger breakout which is going to happen and going to make a big move is likely to be nine million breakout, right? And I miss I did this trade during Covid nineteen time Peloton, right? So here on the Peloton earnings day. If you look at at that time, like obviously the information is not be available, but like say Peloton had this breakout of nine million right in a year basically on this particular day, right? And here fifty two million shares traded and then like an it didn't really make, but like this is the other thing. If you once you do this work, they can have a second time nine million, and that time you already know the information, so you can buy them repeatedly, So that's one of the advantage of doing this, right? And basically the way I'm doing currently. So I did Peloton during that time and the only reason I looked at Peloton was because it was in nine million record, right? So that's how I looked at Peloton. I did like in a. Firstly I did like. Firstly was very good because I had very high conviction I had done the research and I had like I thought based on research it is going to do two hundred percent, so that really made the big this thing. Yeah, life changing If you will come from NTRT, MTRT or nine million, also, right? And if you miss like say if you didn't know anything about fastly once it shows up in nine million, if you research, you still be able to find, but you would not have a good entry, right? And you would not have a good entry on that particular kind of a strategy here ahr everybody is like an event, gango and ehr, right? And basically like on this day of earnings. If you didn't know anything, still the stock had a nine million breakout, right? So you could have still found it using nine million record, right? So that's the thing with nine million you can catch a lot of whales, multiple whales and especially if you're willing to go into storage stocks, you can catch lot of big whales by using nine million. It's just whenever there is a big move, right? And we haven't had a big moves like another but Whenever you get a big move, it never starts with small volumes. It starts with big bang right. Big bang right? And here the stock has made nine hundred percent move right? But here also again like if you look at it, this is fifty million shares traded right? And then it made four hundred and thirty. I'm not trying to be cute and trying to calculate whether it will be nine million or not, right? And that's not the idea. The idea is to find a stock which has a catalyst, right? And so either I would know a catalyst in that case I would have bought it based on catalyst or like. And I just see it in the scan and once I see it in the scan, I research and then if I my research shows, then I buy it. You don't have to worry about whether it will hit nine million later or not. If it is a genuine catalyst, you buy based on a catalyst, right? So I'm not trying to play those games. I don't look at five minute chart on these trades, I don't look at like any one of these things which you people are very fond of. And as a result you get stopped out multiple times if there is a genuine catalyst stock, right? And if you did your research and if it looks like, it's going to go up two hundred, three hundred percent, do you really care like any if you put a stop of ten percent or twenty percent or you got out on or like in a five minute or something. Most of the time I go to like the fly because fly is easy to find information on and briefing dot.com is more useful for like briefing dot.com. a lot of people don't know briefing dot.com has a lot. Of useful information, right? And basically in terms of it's not really for like in a date readers and all. But if you are like say looking for where is my original briefing Dot com? I close that I think basically so if you go to briefing dot com, right? And basically this is a very good page, right? And where they have story stocks, right? Many of these stocks which will make like say so like you can do a lot of research, like see uber they have a story stock, right? And so they will have a story stock, like there is something which is really game changing, then it will show up in story stocks. Also they have these emerging growth stocks, right? And those emerging growth stocks, when they add, they can make big moves, right? And a lot of people don't know this like and you can, if you're looking for a newsletter, then briefing dot com has this emerging growth stock help beauty. They added it, right? At what price they added? They added it at thirty seven dollars, right? L Beauty, if you see one hundred, fifty, one percent, it has made the move since they added. So they added it here somewhere thirty seven dollars, right? People say there is no value in briefing, they have no idea what they are talking about, but that's a good thing, right? That's a very good thing. So I use all these just because, like any means I have a budget, right? And I, so I have all these things makes my life handy instead of like. You know basically going through things and seeking alpha, so I find information wherever I want. Okay, any other questions, no questions, so time to go, but suffice it to say that nine million breakout, if you wear a different hat from the momentum burst and if you're looking for these trades with a bigger magnitude, which will make fifty, one hundred, two hundred, three hundred percent move, then nine million breakout is the way to do it. And as and when I decide to sell stock beside and retire, I'm going to be only trading nine million breakouts.

